<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Jan 12 19:00:08 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#bitcoin-core-dev </span><span class="cmdline">Meeting: wumpus sipa gmaxwell jonasschnelli morcos luke-jr btcdrak sdaftuar jtimon cfields petertodd kanzure bluematt instagibbs phantomcircuit codeshark michagogo marcofalke paveljanik NicolasDorier jl2012 instagibbs</span>
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:00:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> hi.
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:01:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> proposed topics?
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:01:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:01:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> o/
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> 0.14 freeze monday, so lock in prs that will go in now and finalize PR/issue tags for 0.14?
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> gmaxwell mentioned yesterday that he's traveling.
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:01:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> feature freeze, of course
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:01:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> here
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:01:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anyone working really hard on getting something in before the feature freeze?
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:02:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> my #9499 and #9375 plus cfields' #9441 are massive
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:02:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9499 | Use recent-rejects, orphans, and recently-replaced txn for compact-block-reconstruction by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #9499 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:02:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9375 | Relay compact block messages prior to full block connection by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #9375 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:02:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> and probably close enough to make it
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:02:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9441 | Net: Massive speedup. Net locks overhaul by theuni · Pull Request #9441 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:02:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> would be nice to get multiwallet in, but it's mostly just waiting on review at this point. if we think we can get it in, I will rebase the final PR(s) as soon as the last pre-MW refactor is merged
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:02:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> +1 BlueMatt's list
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:02:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> (but IIRC from last meeting, there were more important things than MW that take precedence)
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:02:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> there's qt 5.7 which is probably worth having in.
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:03:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> +1... whats missing? Can I help?
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:03:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> I don't understand the blocker there
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:03:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> luke-jr's multiwallet would have been nice, but we're at least two prs away...#8775 could probably be merged easily, but the one thereafter hasnt really gotten any review yet :(
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:03:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8775 | RPC refactoring: Access wallet using new GetWalletForJSONRPCRequest by luke-jr · Pull Request #8775 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:04:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes #9441 should be ready for merge really
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:04:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9441 | Net: Massive speedup. Net locks overhaul by theuni · Pull Request #9441 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:04:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> +1 on multiwallet
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:04:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i did some work on a bump+restructure a while back, and fanquake recently bumped but it's a bit broken. We just need to pull the fixes out of mine and into his. Should be quick/easy, it's just the building that takes a while
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:04:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> my point was I dont think thats gonna make it
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:04:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> (re qt 7.1)
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:04:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> er, 5.7. heh.
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:05:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> would have to turn out to get acks without any comments on the final multiwallet pr, I think
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:05:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> unless we decide we super want it and are willing to let it go in post-feature-freeze
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:05:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> forget about multwallet for 0.14
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:05:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. It's probably to late
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:05:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> yup
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:05:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it's a pity but let's just merge that stuff after the 0.14 split
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:05:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. No hurry.
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:06:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> then it has ample time to be tested in master, which it needs
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:06:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> happy to have help, sure. Let's discuss after meeting.
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:06:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:06:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it's not something that is safe to merge last minute before a release and let people figure it out in a rc :)
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:06:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> havent looked at the diff, but I'd call #9519 a bugfix, so should go in post-monday
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:06:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9519 | Exclude RBF replacement txs from fee estimation by morcos · Pull Request #9519 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:06:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> should we tag that 0.14?
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:06:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> ACK not doing MW in 0.14
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:06:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Yes I talked about it a while this morning with sdaftuar.  We should do it for 0.14
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:07:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> It's a very minor change
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:07:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes bugfixes can be merged after the feature freeze, will tag it
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:07:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#9512 </span><span class="cmdline">is probably a 0.14 bugfix that should be tagged</span>
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:07:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9512 | Fix various things -fsanitize complains about by sipa · Pull Request #9512 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:07:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> there's also the final alert stuff that's supposed to go in 0.14
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:08:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#9512 </span><span class="cmdline">a bugfix?</span>
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:08:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9512 | Fix various things -fsanitize complains about by sipa · Pull Request #9512 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:08:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I think we should merge #9380 for 0.14 as well, or at least the part that breaks out the -dustrelayfee
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:08:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9380 | Separate different uses of minimum fees by morcos · Pull Request #9380 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:08:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I mean I'd call code correctness bugfixes even if there are no bugs
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:08:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't really like the perf hit
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:08:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> assuming we can fix the performance hit?
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:08:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> normally I woudln't mind but hashing is very important to bitcoind performance
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:09:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> regarding 9512, sipa just told me (he's walking out the door) that he can make it a very slight performance improvement... but i guess he hasn't pushed that yet
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:09:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> I know gmaxwell wanted #9484 for 0.14, which I think it should be
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:09:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9484 | Introduce assumevalid setting to skip validation presumed valid scripts. by gmaxwell · Pull Request #9484 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:09:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I had hoped to work on platform specific implementations for sha256, but anyhow, that won't make 0.14 and we shouldn't make the default implementation slower than necessary either
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:09:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ok, lets punt on 9512 for now, then
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:09:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> can decide later
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:10:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Can we discuss briefly the concept of dust being tied to minrelaytxfee
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:10:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> yeah unless there's something that introduces an actual bug (I don't even understand all the change in it - e.g. asked about the change from LONG_MAX to 1&lt;&lt;40)
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:10:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> so things that need review before monday: 9484, 9499, 9375, 9441
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:10:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> sure, next topic
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:10:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i'm running to catch a bus, but i believe i have a slightly faster-than-master but sanitize-correct version of ReadLE32 etc
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:10:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">review before monday : 9484, 9499, 9375, 9441</span>
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:10:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> great!
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:11:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and by faster i mean 0.025%
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:11:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> heh
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:11:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I want to motivate why its important to consider #9380 as well.  At least one of the commits there has translation strings..  do we translate debug help?
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:11:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9380 | Separate different uses of minimum fees by morcos · Pull Request #9380 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:11:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well "not slower" would be the goal so anything faster is doubly awesome
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:11:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> wait, which PR was the LONG_MAX comment in reference to?
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:12:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> #9512 IIRC
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:12:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9512 | Fix various things -fsanitize complains about by sipa · Pull Request #9512 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:12:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ahh, yea, admittedly I havent read the code there yet, beyond very brief skimming
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:12:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> go ahead?
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:12:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> yes, it's in the CScriptNum tests
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:13:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Sorry I was confused as to whether I was waiting for "topic:" or not..  Anyway.  The point is that right now if a miner changes the -minrelaytxfee, this already automatically changes their definition of dust.  This occasionally leads to txs with high feerates not being minable by some portion of miners
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:13:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9512/files#diff-2513c35abb5ab245137423db2d803628R17
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:14:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Set topic for morcos?
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:14:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> oh yes forgot that - current topic is still what to do before the feature freeze
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:14:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic  </span><span class="topicline">the concept of dust being tied to minrelaytxfee</span>
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:14:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> ahh, ok, I'd call that a bugfix that we can do post-feature-freeze? but sounds like something that should be fixed
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:14:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> (I assume code is realatively trivial)
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:14:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> what about the transaltion strings
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:15:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> Those are "hidden" features? So no translation string
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:15:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ?
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:15:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> I'd recommend against exposing -dustfeerate
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:15:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> to every user
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:16:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Maybe not even at all. Just make it a const in the code.
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:16:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, translation freeze is at the same time as feature freeze
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:16:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> ok, in that PR, -blockmintxfee was not hidden, specifically intended to be used by miners...  But yes -dustrelayfee is hidden.  And I agree, it shouldn't be changed by anyone.
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:16:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but if it's a debug feature it won't have translation strings, ofc
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:16:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I suppose if we merge it too late, we can start with all features hidden and expose them next version
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:17:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ehh, I'd say the diff is pretty trivial, lets just target it for monday?
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:17:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> (at the risk of piling on top of the other 4)
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:17:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Anyhway there are 2 potential problems:  1, a users txs are stuck for reasons they don't understand, but potentially more seriously it hurts fee estimation...
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:18:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I actually do agree with luke-jr that ideally fee estimation will be more robust to this...  but considering we dont' see much value in having different nodes have different definitions of dust.  It seems a no-brainer to fix that so it doesn't change anytime someone is trying to avoid spammy low-fee txs
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:19:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> eh, is it based on your own fee, or the relay min fee? I thought the latter
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:19:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> dust is based on minrelayfee, but people change minrelayfee to avoid spam or limit their mempool and inadvently change dust in teh process
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:20:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> ah
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:21:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> OK, I'm done..  Just wanted to be sure this was flagged before it was too late... seems like we could merge some version after feature freeze if we had to..  , anyway, someone please tag 9380 for 0.14 as well
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:22:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:22:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> lets add it to the list for monday and if it slips thats ok
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:22:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> wumpus/sdaftuar/morcos should #8456 be un-tagged for 0.14? probably #8501 should be. I dont think we're gonna make #8654 or #8723 or #8755 either
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:22:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8456 | [RPC] Simplified bumpfee command. by mrbandrews · Pull Request #8456 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:22:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8501 | Add mempool statistics collector by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #8501 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:22:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8654 | Reuse sighash computations across evaluation (rebase of #4562) by jl2012 · Pull Request #8654 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:22:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8723 | [Wallet] Add support for flexible BIP32/HD keypath-scheme by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #8723 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:22:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8755 | Implement excessive sighashing protection policy with tight sighash estimation by jl2012 · Pull Request #8755 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:23:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. We should
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:23:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jl2012&gt;</span> yes, leave 8654 and 8755 for later
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:23:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> do you have a strong desire for #9294?
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:23:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9294 | Use internal HD chain for change outputs (hd split) by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9294 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:23:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I think 8456 can make it...  The others maybe not
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:23:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. 9294 must go in!
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:23:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> its kinda light on ACKs to get merged this weekend, no?
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:23:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Needs review. Has only a single utACK
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:23:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> looks like it needs rebase?
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:23:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We should also tag #9377
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:23:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9377 | fundrawtransaction: Keep change-output keys by default, make it optional by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9377 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:24:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> grrr, this list is a bit long for 4 days incl a weekend...
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:24:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Oh. Yes. Needs rebase (since today)
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:24:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agree on 8456 may still make it, I think the only discussion there is about the default value for walletrbf and that's unnecessary to decide there
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:24:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> maybe we should split up the list between different people?
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:24:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, it's not going to all make it
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:24:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> we don't all have to review the same stuff
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:24:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> as I've said last week we should really make a choice
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:24:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> instead of trying to  cram everything in
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:25:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> we dont have enough reviewers for that to work well enough :(
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:25:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 9377 is a bugfix and can go in later
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:25:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But please review 9294,.. is a sensitive wallet thing
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:25:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> and I think gmaxwell and sipa are on the road, plus I'm avoiding review at least until my cold is a bit better and I can think straight
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:25:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> especiall for the wallet it seems getting reviewers is really hard
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:25:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> :&lt;
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:25:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> yes :(
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:25:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;bitcoin-git&gt;</span> [13bitcoin] 15losh11 opened pull request #9534: Statoshi (06master...06master) 02https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9534
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:26:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;bitcoin-git&gt;</span> [13bitcoin] 15losh11 closed pull request #9534: Statoshi (06master...06master) 02https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9534
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:26:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> that one's done!
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:26:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I'm afraid I will prioritize the ones that are easier for me to review either way
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:26:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> sure
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:26:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> wallet needs the most review after consensus-critical changes, too
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:27:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> is the fact that 9377 is a bugfix a good reason to delay it?
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:27:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> delay,.. more priorize because of the freeze.
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:27:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> 9377 needs rebase
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:27:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But 9377 fixes a address reuse problem ans should be in 0.14
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:28:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> how important is it to get 9294 in 0.14 as opposed to 0.15? should I prioritise it over the other reviews?
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:28:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It somehow feels that all my PR needs rebase since today.
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:28:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ok, 9377 looks like a bugfix that can go in after monday...looks like an easy diff too
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:28:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> can someone tag it?
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:28:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> heh, I rebased something yesterday and had to re-rebase it again today XD
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:28:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 9294 should be in 0.14 because we should avoid creating more single-chain HD wallets
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:28:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> made it to the bus!
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:29:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> can it upgrade single-chain HD wallets?
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:29:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> No
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:29:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> That's why it should be in 0.14
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:29:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> is there a reason it cannot?
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:29:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> You can't split the hd chains once you have created change outputs on the external chain...
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:29:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that's a good point
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:29:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> well... not with consequences.
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:29:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yay!
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:29:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> like re-seed
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:29:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and HD isn't released yet?
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:30:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> it is.
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:30:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> HD is already in 0.13
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:30:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so from the wallet features we should focus on getting #9294 in
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:30:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Since 0.13
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:30:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9294 | Use internal HD chain for change outputs (hd split) by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9294 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:30:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I don't understand why not. Maybe we should discuss this further after the meeting?
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:30:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Ok so its a matter of not makign it worse then
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:30:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes it is, but uses a single chain, which is inconvenient for reconstruction from a seed
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:30:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes.
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:30:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> recovery from a seed won't correctly identify change
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:30:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> that's all
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:30:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The change is not complex, but also not trivial
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:31:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> are there other wallet related changes we want to see in 0.14
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:31:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:31:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> ?
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:31:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> gmaxwell and I like to have the keypool detecting in 0.14
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:31:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But not sure if its too late
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:31:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> what happens if I try to recover from a seed generated from a current HD wallet? ;)
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:31:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think that is too laye
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:31:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. It feels like
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:31:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> how #9294 works with #8723 ?
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:31:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9294 | Use internal HD chain for change outputs (hd split) by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9294 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:31:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8723 | [Wallet] Add support for flexible BIP32/HD keypath-scheme by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #8723 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:32:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that's a bugfix IMO
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:32:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> or potentially a bugfix, at least
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:32:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 8723 has no reviews.
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:32:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> To late for 0.14 IMO
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:32:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> can you remind us what keypool detecting is?
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:32:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> but have you thought about how they would combine?
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:32:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, we have no direct recovery tools from seed AFAIK
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:32:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> the wallet marking keys as used once they are seen in a transaction
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:32:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> independently of which one goes first
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:32:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> current flow is ~same as before
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:32:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> but presumably we will be adding one
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:32:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> if you use an old backup... you want to autodetect keys already been used.
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:33:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, indeed, which is why split will be important, right?
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:33:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> got it, thanks
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:33:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We need to check the keypool keys during SyncTransaction (each input/output) and mark the key as used when we have a match
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:33:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Otherwise you re-use keys.
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:34:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> (if you don't topup your keypool +1000 and do a rescan before you use your old backup)
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:34:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> perhaps. but nothing stops someone from recovering from a pre-split seed?
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:35:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> yes. But we should at least stop creating wallets with change and normal-addresses on the same chain.
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:35:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> not disputing that.
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:35:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Flexible keypath is nice.. but too late for 0.14.
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:36:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The sad thing is, it will be another feature that is not downward compatible.
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:36:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 0.13 HD, 0.14 HD/split, 0.15 flex-keypath
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:36:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> All not backward comp.
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:36:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> meh.
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:36:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Meh.
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:36:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> That's why I'd like combining the HD split with other stuff.
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:36:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> surely at least HD/split can be upgraded to flex-keypath⁇
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:36:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> breaking backward compatibility in major releases is fine
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:37:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> Yeah why can't we upgrade to keypath?
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:37:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay.
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:37:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> You can upgrade to keypath, but not downgrade
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:37:38 </span><span class="nka">* instagibbs</span> <span class="ac">should have actually reviewed, my bad</span>
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:37:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Use a 0.15 wallet in 0.14 as an example
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:37:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But maybe its not so bad.
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:37:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> upgrade-only is okay. we have -walletupgrade for that
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:38:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> don't you mean forwards compatible? backwards compatible means that it can use old wallets, which should always be possible
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:38:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> right. My fault.
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:38:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> backward compatible means that old software can use new wallets
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:38:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but being able to use  a new wallet with an old major version is not
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:38:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> huh?
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:38:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> perspetive thing. :)
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:38:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I thought the other way around.
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:38:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *perspective
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:39:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> forward compatible is what you normally always have
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:39:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't understand it anymore then
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:39:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> wallet.dat vs Core wallet relativity...
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:39:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> oopz
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:39:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> Walllet format vs. Wallet app
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:39:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I think we have more cases than normal
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:39:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> maybe i am wrong too
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:39:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Looking at the git history tells me, that we took good care about the fact that you can run a newer wallet on an older bitcoin-core version
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:39:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i will shut up
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:39:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> And now we break that in 0.13, 0.14 and probably 0.15.
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:40:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But fine for me.
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:40:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jonasschnelli, OTOH, these are the kind of upgrades people desperately want...
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:40:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> for future work
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:40:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> well in my opinion that doesn't matter too much. What is important is that if you open a wallet once with the new version you should still be able to downgrade
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:40:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> there have been cases where -walletupgrade is needed, and then the wallet ceases to work in old versions
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:40:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> wallet format is forward compatible, wallet app is backward compatible
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:40:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> however, new wallets created with new versions don't need to be open-able with old versions
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:40:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. Seems that we all agree. Good.
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:40:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> +1 for those standards
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:41:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we're just trying to avoid that *touching* a wallet with a new version automatically makes it incompatible, which would happen when upgrading berkeleydb for example
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:41:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Flexible keypath is nice. But we don't want to support BIP44 anyways thats why it's not urgent
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:41:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> all these backards and forwards compatibility is confusing, softfork and hardforks are much more clear :p
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:41:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> +1
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:41:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> we should also avoid making it incompatible unintentionally; only if -walletupgrade is enabled should we bump the feature requirements of a wallet
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:41:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> lol
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:42:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> eg, if someone tries to use the flex-keypath, throw an error instead of upgrading the wallet (unless option is enabled0
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:45:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ok, list for monday: 9380 (if it slips that ok, but prefer monday), net-related: 9441, 9375, 9499 (can someone tag 9499), 9486. wallet related: 9294, 8456 (are you sure that can make it sdaftuar/morcos?)
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:45:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> well, ok, 9486 is whatever, its trivial
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:45:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> i think 8456 ought to be done, though it is true that gmaxwell keeps finding small issues
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:45:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> Please no use of the terms "evil compatibility" or "backward-forward compatibility"
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:45:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> everything else tagged looks like a bugfix (#9490 is, right?)
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:45:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9490 | Replace FindLatestBefore used by importmuti with FindEarliestAtLeast. by gmaxwell · Pull Request #9490 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:46:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> yes that is a bugfix
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:46:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> is #9484 on the list?
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:46:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9484 | Introduce assumevalid setting to skip validation presumed valid scripts. by gmaxwell · Pull Request #9484 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:46:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> whats up with #9461?
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:46:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9461 | [Qt] Improve progress display during headers-sync and peer-finding by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9461 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:46:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> lol evil compatibility
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:46:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> oops, yes, add that to the list
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:46:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> simple change. Hope we can get it into 0.14
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:46:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Needs review
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:46:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ok, list for monday: 9380 (if it slips that ok, but prefer monday), 9484, net-related: 9441, 9375, 9499 (can someone tag 9499), 9486. wallet related: 9294, 8456 (are you sure that can make it sdaftuar/morcos?)
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:46:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> do an `action` thing with the final list?
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:46:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> someone with the meeting hammer has to do that i think
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:47:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> O.o
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:47:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> that list is much too long :(
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:47:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I've tagged 9499. Though we should stop tagging more stuff for monday.
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:47:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> nah... we can do all those
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:47:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> lol
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:47:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we're not going to make the current list
<a name="l-291"></a><span class="tm">19:47:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I think they are almost all ready for merge except perhaps 9294
<a name="l-292"></a><span class="tm">19:47:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> maybe we should sort the list by priority
<a name="l-293"></a><span class="tm">19:47:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> otherwise we're liable to work on opposite ones first and get none done
<a name="l-294"></a><span class="tm">19:47:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> i dont think 8456 is gonna make that, either
<a name="l-295"></a><span class="tm">19:48:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in 2 hours it'll have 2 ACK's, but if it doesn't make it, thats fine
<a name="l-296"></a><span class="tm">19:48:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> what do you think about pulling out your net lock change from #9419 for inclusion? I've been assuming that would make it in in one way or another
<a name="l-297"></a><span class="tm">19:48:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9419 | Stop Using cs_main for CNodeState/State() by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #9419 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-298"></a><span class="tm">19:48:34 </span><span class="nka">* sipa</span> <span class="ac">imagines creating a few sockpuppet accounts on github now</span>
<a name="l-299"></a><span class="tm">19:48:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> *morcos
<a name="l-300"></a><span class="tm">19:48:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> heh
<a name="l-301"></a><span class="tm">19:48:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> 9499 was deliberately written to be as easy to review as possible (for 0.14)...there are tons of things to make it better, but they were all left
<a name="l-302"></a><span class="tm">19:48:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that'd violate github tos :P
<a name="l-303"></a><span class="tm">19:48:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> (it belongs in 9441, i just left it out because you already had one)
<a name="l-304"></a><span class="tm">19:49:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> depends how many kids you have
<a name="l-305"></a><span class="tm">19:49:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> oh fuck I forgot about the cs_vSend split there
<a name="l-306"></a><span class="tm">19:49:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> 9380 seems easy to review, more about deciding what to expose now and what to leave for later
<a name="l-307"></a><span class="tm">19:49:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> argh, well I can open it in its own pr, but that one's gonna be a rush if we want it
<a name="l-308"></a><span class="tm">19:49:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> it is a huge win, though :/
<a name="l-309"></a><span class="tm">19:49:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> account terms #1 You must be 13 years or older to use this Service.
<a name="l-310"></a><span class="tm">19:49:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/1 | JSON-RPC support for mobile devices ("ultra-lightweight" clients) · Issue #1 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-311"></a><span class="tm">19:49:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> …
<a name="l-312"></a><span class="tm">19:50:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> hah
<a name="l-313"></a><span class="tm">19:50:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> heh
<a name="l-314"></a><span class="tm">19:50:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> indeed. I think it's quite simple, though
<a name="l-315"></a><span class="tm">19:51:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> any other topics?
<a name="l-316"></a><span class="tm">19:51:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> 10 min
<a name="l-317"></a><span class="tm">19:52:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;bitcoin-git&gt;</span> [13bitcoin] 15TheBlueMatt opened pull request #9535: Split CNode::cs_vSend: message processing and message sending (06master...062017-01-cs-vsend-split) 02https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9535
<a name="l-318"></a><span class="tm">19:52:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> thanks. Will scrutinize.
<a name="l-319"></a><span class="tm">19:53:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> dont kill me, but ^ is kinda worth doing for monday :(
<a name="l-320"></a><span class="tm">19:54:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> they're all worth doing, that's not the question
<a name="l-321"></a><span class="tm">19:54:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> it's not the end of the world if we don't have all optimisations in for 0.14 &gt;_&lt;K
<a name="l-322"></a><span class="tm">19:54:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> true
<a name="l-323"></a><span class="tm">19:54:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agree luke-jr
<a name="l-324"></a><span class="tm">19:55:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's leave something for 0.15
<a name="l-325"></a><span class="tm">19:55:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> oh I've got lots for 0.15 already :p
<a name="l-326"></a><span class="tm">19:55:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> of which at least half will probably miss 0.15 and only make it to 0.16 :)
<a name="l-327"></a><span class="tm">19:55:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> oh yea
<a name="l-328"></a><span class="tm">19:55:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> always do
<a name="l-329"></a><span class="tm">19:55:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> XD
<a name="l-330"></a><span class="tm">19:56:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> it's not like we have 3 years between releases ☺
<a name="l-331"></a><span class="tm">19:56:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that's how it goes, there's no other way if you have time based releases
<a name="l-332"></a><span class="tm">19:56:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> anyway, so lets call the meeting?
<a name="l-333"></a><span class="tm">19:56:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and without a deadline we'd never agree what to put in a release and never again do a release
<a name="l-334"></a><span class="tm">19:56:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> what's the phone number?
<a name="l-335"></a><span class="tm">19:56:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ooo, I vote for that one
<a name="l-336"></a><span class="tm">19:56:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> lol
<a name="l-337"></a><span class="tm">19:56:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, I think we're out of topics
<a name="l-338"></a><span class="tm">19:56:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
