<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Nov 30 19:00:03 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#bitcoin-core-dev </span><span class="cmdline">Meeting: wumpus sipa gmaxwell jonasschnelli morcos luke-jr btcdrak sdaftuar jtimon cfields petertodd kanzure bluematt instagibbs phantomcircuit codeshark michagogo marcofalke paveljanik NicolasDorier jl2012 achow101 meshcollider jnewbery maaku fanquake promag</span>
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:00:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:00:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> hello
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:00:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:00:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:00:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:00:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:00:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">high priority for review</span>
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:01:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;meshcollider&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:01:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:01:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> 8 PRs have been tagged for https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:01:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> why does cfields have 2?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:01:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I added cfields's BanMan last week as it's blocking his further net refactoring
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:01:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> wasn't me, but i'll take it :)
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:02:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ohh is it unfair?
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:02:09 </span><span class="nka">* jonasschnelli</span> <span class="ac">also have two :|</span>
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:02:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> achow101, i see you rebased yours? we shooting for post-0.16?
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:02:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> i think we try to have only one per person
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:02:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:02:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> well i suggested we include jonasschnelli's other one as its kinda a segwit-wallet-blocker imo
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:02:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> or at least in-same-release
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:02:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> I'm shooting for 0.16
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:02:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> but it may not make it
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:03:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> ok, I can give it more love, though I think I've given a lot already, probably needs others....
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:03:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> still some segwit related things to do and runn1ng wants simulations
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:03:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> also been busy with exams and classwork
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:03:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well, good solution for that, review and merge one of cfields's PRs and there will be only one left :)
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:03:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;karelb&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> I came just in time :) yes I wanted some simulations
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:03:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> heh
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:03:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so i think we're maybe unintentionally moving from a "we release regularly with whatever is finished" to "X is a blocker for release Y"
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:04:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> oh, wait, i dont have one...hmmmm, I'd say #10279
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:04:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> segwit is the only exception to that
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:04:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i have no problem with removing one of mine if it's an issue. But yes, I think 11363 is ready/easy to review
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:04:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10279 | Add a CChainState class to validation.cpp to take another step towards clarifying internal interfaces by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10279 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:04:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I think we'll go back to that post-segwit-wallet, no?
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:04:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> for the rest, releases are only ever blocked on bugfixes not features
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:04:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I think 0.16 is the exception? because segwit wallet
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:04:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:04:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> what is the blocker for 0.16 ?
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:04:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> okay, that's fine - i'm not saying it's a bad thing
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:04:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> i think it's openly acknowledged
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:04:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and segwit wallet is not intended as a *blocker* for 0.16
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:05:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we intend to release 0.16 early after that's in
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:05:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so it's more like a trigger
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:05:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> fair enough
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:05:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but it still changes prioritization a bit
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:05:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> indeed
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:05:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> i think the segwit pr is shaping up nicely at least
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:05:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if segwit wallet takes longer than the 0.16 release window, then IMO we should release 0.16 without it
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:05:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but I don't expect that
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:05:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> agreed
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:06:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> oh, I see, we want to release 0.16 soon after segwit wallet gets in
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:06:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yep
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:06:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm about to push some review fixes to #11403
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:06:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403 | SegWit wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:06:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> seems more advisable than trying to backport the whole lot + dependencies to 0.15
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:06:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> not sure if you've clarified somewhere, do you consider all of the listed TODOs in 11403 blockers for release as well?
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:06:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yeah, I think I suggested that, eithe way it makes sense to me
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:07:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> thanks in that case :)
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:07:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> branch 0.15 into 0.16 ;)
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:07:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> yes
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:07:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> ok, thanks
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:08:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> So, segwit-wallet is done?
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:08:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I'm not following review on the segwit wallet pr, how is it going?
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:08:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think #11403 is pretty much done - just nits in command line option handling and output
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:08:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403 | SegWit wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:08:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> great
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:08:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> I tried reviewing it but it's big and scary
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:09:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> awesome
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:09:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we may want to discuss what to do with things like how dumpprivkey and signmessage should work in a post-segwit world
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:09:29 </span><span class="nka">* Randolf</span> <span class="ac">congratulates achow101 for trying</span>
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:09:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i found it reasonable review on a per-commit basis
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:09:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> cfields, same
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:09:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> as i believe some projects have come up with formats on their own
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:09:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> *to review
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:09:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> trezor has implemented their own segwit message signing thing
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:09:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I guess I need tofix the nits in #8994 and #10757 if I want them to have a chance to get merged before 0.16 then
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:10:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8994 | Testchains: Introduce custom chain whose constructor... by jtimon · Pull Request #8994 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:10:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> I think that might be the only one though
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:10:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10757 | RPC: Introduce getblockstats to plot things by jtimon · Pull Request #10757 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:10:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> perhaps we can just adopt that
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:10:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> what are we referring to by "soon after"?
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:10:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> well if other project's import/export formats make sense, it'd be good to use them for interchangeability
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:10:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I don't think it's documented anywhere though
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:10:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;meshcollider&gt;</span> Should there be a BIP to formalise it
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:10:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> at least not yet
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:10:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Is there a good standard for message signing?
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:10:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> longer term i think a script-based signing would nice, but i don't think we're ready to adopt something like that
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:10:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I thought they did but backed it out because it wasn't standardized yet. What they did didn't seem to awful, though I feel a little uneasy about the mutability between keytypes.
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:11:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;karelb&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ad sign message - in trezor we changed v constant - https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10542#issuecomment-316032523 - no BIP, no time :(
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:11:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">karelb:</span> ok, i'll have a look
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:11:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the original bitcoin core message signing doesn't have a bip either
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:11:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> no
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:11:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> a BIP is not a requirement for us implementing it, though in parallel it'd be nice
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:11:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> it probably should if we change it, though
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:11:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> perhaps it should? retcon one :p
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:11:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> seems reasonable
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:11:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> good to already have implementations and the BIP just formalizes it
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:12:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Well, signmessage is generally not very good; but fixing it should be a longer term thing.
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:12:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> I vaguely remember trying to implement / refactor signing and being not amused by the lack of a standard.
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:12:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> current signed messages get very little real use, and most "usage" is based on misconceptions
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:12:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;karelb&gt;</span> sipa yes good point. I wanted to write up a document that describes both current and segwit message signing, but I got stuck on how ecdsa signing actually works :)
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:12:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> agree
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:12:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> IMO it'd make sense to just deprecate it until a better replacement is made
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:12:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> it's not a priority at least
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:12:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, it's used for airdrops :P
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:12:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> i agree it's not all that useful
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:12:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Can it be made coin-agnostic as well?
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:12:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> certainly shouldn't be a blocker for 0.16
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:12:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> that's a misuse, since it doesn't prove you have funds ;)
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:12:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> no.
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:13:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;karelb&gt;</span> we didn't have segwit message signing in web wallet, but users repeatedly demanded it
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:13:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, but i profit from it, how can it be misuse ;P
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:13:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> +1 tho
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:13:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> The fact that it's inherently incompatible with multisig is a real bummer.
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:13:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">karelb:</span> for what, though?
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:13:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> lol
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:13:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> airdrops
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:13:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> XD
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:13:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> using bitcoin keys for anything else than signing transactions continues to make me uneasy
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:13:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, +1 to move to signing messages based on scripts
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:14:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> MAST-based signmessage would be a sensible replacement
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:14:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> what would that look like?
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:14:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> do hardware wallets even support it?
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:14:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> you could have a MAST if-branch that is always false for transactions, and then true for meta uses
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:14:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> If I were to it again, I'd make signmessage work by just creating a transaction which is inherently unminable. It would make it a lot more compatible, though somewhat larger.
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:14:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> a general solution for airdrops seems extremely difficult
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:15:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> like we sign txs but signing any message, in elements we sign blocks so perhaps you want to take a look (since there's generic functions to sign stuff, but they're not exposed and only used for blocks)
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:15:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> In elements sipa wrote a patch for a script based signmessage; but we ran into ... challenges.. with how softforks would be handled.
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:15:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> that'd have been better; at least the keys would only be used to sign things in one format
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:15:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Segwit script versioning would fix those challenges.
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:15:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> yes, two chains might have very different redemption conditions for the same utxo
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:16:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Hah, so you can do multisig messages? :-)
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:16:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> yes
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:16:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> and timelocked signatures :p
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:16:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Or even partial messages?
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:16:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I think they should be handled with flags
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:16:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yes, but the general property of softforks doesn't apply
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:16:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> oh, right, script versioning solves it too
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:16:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> you don't want a "oh, i don't know this signature version! it's valid!!"
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:17:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> the 'pubkey' needs to commit to the rules. pre-segwit style softforks don't.
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:17:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Well you can tristate:  Valid, invalid, unknown public key version.
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:17:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:17:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that's a risk for txs too, though
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:17:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> sure, I mean, this is out of the blockchain, so you just need to know which flags to use when validating...what gmaxwell said, commit to the rules
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:18:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> prior to having the explicit versions we couldn't do that, which is why we never even merged the patch in elements, much less brought it to bitcoin.
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:18:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> why sighash flags can't fail valid
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:18:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> attacker controls signature side flags.
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:18:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> right, that's my point
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:19:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> same reason sighash flags can fail valid in bitcoin: If I pick an out of range sighash flag I could forge signatures for your pubkeys.
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:19:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:20:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I also don't follow
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:20:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> [19:16:56] &lt;sipa&gt; you don't want a "oh, i don't know this signature version! it's valid‼" &lt;-- this is a problem for transactions just as much as for signed messages
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:20:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> are there any topics we really want to discuss in this meeting? I think we're drifting off a bit
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:21:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> You cannot trigger "unknown behavior, I'll let it pass" based on sighash flags like you can based on the content of public keys.
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:21:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> next (quick) topic suggestion: codesigning keys update
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:21:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> Other PRs I'd love to see merged for v0.16 are #10583 #10579 #11415 . They're all removing wallet dependencies from server, but are API changes so have a one release deprecation lag time before the dependency can actually be removed.
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:21:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10583 | [RPC] Split part of validateaddress into getaddressinfo by achow101 · Pull Request #10583 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:21:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10579 | [RPC] Split signrawtransaction into wallet and non-wallet RPC command by achow101 · Pull Request #10579 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:21:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11415 | [RPC] Disallow using addresses in createmultisig by achow101 · Pull Request #11415 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:21:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, how about what "shortly after" means for 0.16 ?
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:21:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Two topic proposals: 1) review "nits" reduction, 2) bitcoin core code signing assoc.
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:21:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 2) goes in hand with cfields topicp.
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:22:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jnewbery:</span> thanks, I think adding all of them to high priority is a bit much, but we could add one
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:22:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">codesigning</span>
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:22:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> I just wanted to point out that after researching for a bit, there's no painless way to renew our osx cert (without involving the btcf), so I think it's prudent that we explore other options.
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:22:22 </span><span class="nka">* cfields</span> <span class="ac">passes the mic to jonasschnelli</span>
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:22:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoincore-codesigning-association
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:22:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it seems like some of those are ready to be merged. they have utACKs and no comments left
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:22:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://bitcoincorecodesigning.org
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:22:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The association stands and apple has accepted the entity
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:22:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Code sining certificates are ready (need to setup the key)
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:23:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> oh that's fantastic! nice work :)
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:23:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> if they're ready for merge even better, please notify me of those things outside the meeting
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:23:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> thanks. I think they're all pretty much ready for merge. achow101 has been doing a great job maintaining and rebasing them - perhaps just a bit more ACKing and they can go in
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:23:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We need a windows code signing cert... have never done that but I'm ready to order if someone gives instructions where and how
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:24:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">PSA:</span> if something is ready for merge just let me know here instead of waiting for me to stumble on it accidentally :)
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:24:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jnewbery:</span> afaict only maybe the last is ready? the second only has one ack?
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:24:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ok!
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:24:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that was fast!
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:24:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> oh great!
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:24:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/dashboard/get-a-code-signing-certificate
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:25:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> note that a driver cert is different. More requirements.
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:25:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> getting a driver cert is much more difficult
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:25:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> oh, didn't see that that was for drivers
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:25:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I guess it should be, with the privilege level it operates at
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:26:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The question is if we want to try that distributed RSA key
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:26:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we do
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:26:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> mic?
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:26:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> or who was it who said they were gonna look into hooking it into a reasonable way to use it?
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:26:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> I'll work on the CSR handling as promised. I assume we'll just have to shove the result back into the expected format.
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:27:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I didn't think we were going to bother to do it for the first one. but this is going faster than expected! :)
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:27:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> Yeah. Apple needs that -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:27:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> that was gmaxwell. I also wanted to take a look at it. it looked painful
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:27:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> it's not so painful but we need a process for converting raw RSA numbers into csrs and what not, which cfields was going to look into.
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:28:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> The easiest thing to do may be to just do trusted setup: generate the key normally on an offline machine, and we can split it after the the fact.
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:28:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ugh
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:28:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> the MPC signing is radically simple and faster than MPC key generation.
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:29:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> i thought the mpc generation was implemented?
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:29:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Though the stuff I linked to does both. (though it's setup for only three parties atm)
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:29:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> i mean thats probably fine?
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:29:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> 3/3, I assume?
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:29:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> can it be done faster than what is already implemented?
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:29:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> of course, but do we care if it takes hours?
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:30:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if it's a one-time thing we don't
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:30:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> let's talk after the meeting. It'd be great if we could get a dummy to test with.
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:30:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> yes 3/3. Generation you'd always do as n/n then potentially reshare to a different threshold.
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:30:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> sure
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:30:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> its not like this is holding a zksnark trusted-setup for all btc
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:30:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> How big are the keys they use for these things? 2kbit or 4kbit?
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:31:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> would be nice to get another blog from P
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:31:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> l
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:31:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:31:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:31:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Peter todd riding down Canada to generate his signing key.
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:31:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> 2048 is what my apple RSA keys are
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:31:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> And then bragging that's more secure than Zcash
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:31:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> indeed, it's just code signing, for one OS, if something is signed that is not validated by the gitian process that's discovered soon enough anyway
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:31:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> it's totally unrelated.
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:31:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Code signing won't give a lot of additional security...
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:32:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It's just a UX thing IMO
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:32:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> zcash has a backdoor for the whole system, this is just some code signing crud.
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:32:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:32:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> I know.
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:32:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> the users shouldn't care AT ALL about the MPC we use for it, the purpose of the MPC is to protect the developers personally from being implicated in the unfortunate case their own computers get hacked.
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:32:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> does the MPC generation have a trusted setup?
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:32:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> no.
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:33:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i assume not - if you're fine with trusted setup, just generate a single key and split it layer
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:33:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, so it is entirely unrelated
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:33:15 </span><span class="nka">* jtimon</span> <span class="ac">is curious about the "review nits reduction" topic...</span>
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:33:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes it's just to prevent the person doing the code signing from becoming a specific target
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:34:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> review nit reduction topic?
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:34:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> it just uses paillier, and lots of roundtrips. it's pretty simple.
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:34:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">review nit reduction</span>
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:35:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I just feel that we spend a lot of time in finding code-style nits, fixing code-style nits and some of the PRs are almost a single wall of nits... It doesn't seem to be efficient... I think..
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:35:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We should enforce the rules... ( I know I already brought that up )
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:36:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The libcurl project does that... it won't compile (make) if the code style doesn't matches
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:36:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It would reduce the review time a lot...
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:36:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> And we apperently fixing the nits anyways at some point in time
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:36:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> you mean getting travis to complain about style nits?
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:36:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Currently we're only running whitespace linter?
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:37:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> travis already does this... (whitespace)
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:37:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> if there were an easy way to apply it to new code only, I'd say thats probably fine
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:37:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I just want to get the code styling nits away from github comments
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:37:28 </span><span class="nka">* jtimon</span> <span class="ac">nods</span>
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:37:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> but it was my impression we were not able to find a way to do so
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:37:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> only new code. Yes.
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:37:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> that was my understanding too
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:38:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so have e.g. clang-format check the diff of pull requests?
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:38:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> (brainstorming) or we could have a bot that marks a PR ready for review only after all nits are fixed
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:38:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Yes. Can we enforce that somehow?
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:38:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> Would also be something.. yes.
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:38:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so that people know not to look at something while there is still automated review going on
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:38:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I don't know...
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:38:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> It would also help to offer some hints for developers how to run linters in their editor. I'll add an entry for OSX Atom once I figure it out myself.
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:38:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> didn't someone wrote something like that at some point?
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:38:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> as long as it doesn't generate noise (posts) that's ok with me
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:38:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> so if it works like travis, just adds another cross to the status
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:38:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Would something speak against enforcing the clang-format-diff check during make?
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:39:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> w/ a link to the list of problems
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:39:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> right,t hat would be nice
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:39:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;meshcollider&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> adding new linters to Travis would only affect PRs now since #11699
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:39:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11699 | [travis-ci] Only run linters on Pull Requests by jnewbery · Pull Request #11699 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:39:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but I don't want any bots that generate notifications in my mail
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:39:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:39:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Yes, That would disturb even more
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:39:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Just an indication if its ready to review...
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:39:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> And so we can have less of those "brackets, spaces missing blabla"
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:40:32 </span><span class="nka">* BlueMatt</span> <span class="ac">was always in favor, did we find out if we could get a reasonably stable output out of clang-format?</span>
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:40:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> or was it always very version-dependant?
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:40:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It just feels some reviews are more or less a "clang-format diff output"
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:40:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I like how golang handles that, they just have one true style
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:41:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and their linter can be safely used in e.g. pull request checks, w/ no ambiguity
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:41:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> wouldn't we need to comply with clang format in the whole project before doing the clang check in make? has anyone seen haw many changes trying to apply clang-format to the whole project produces right now?
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:41:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> do we have good developer documentation on how to do the right thing locally (not what the rules are, but how to check them?)
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:41:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> you can apply clang-format on just the diffs
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:41:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;meshcollider&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> not if it's only run on the diff
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:41:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:41:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but clang-format only checks whitespace/newlines
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:41:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> good point!
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:41:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it doesn't check variable names etc
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:41:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> we should focus on that
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:41:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> A small amount of code style nits on github are probably good for teamwork.
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:42:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I think that's fine, those are the ones we want out of the way
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:42:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> not sure if that is possible
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:42:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">meshcollider:</span> right, only for pr diffs, yeah, I thought he meant every time you build locally
<a name="l-291"></a><span class="tm">19:42:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> variable names are more of a human thing anyhow
<a name="l-292"></a><span class="tm">19:42:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> so it's fine if humans comment on them
<a name="l-293"></a><span class="tm">19:42:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i'd be happy to do more locally, i'm sure my PR's are disasters, but it would be nice if a good workflow was spelled out
<a name="l-294"></a><span class="tm">19:42:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> Indeed
<a name="l-295"></a><span class="tm">19:42:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;meshcollider&gt;</span> Scripted diffs will probably regularly require style change commits too to keep Travis happy
<a name="l-296"></a><span class="tm">19:42:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> there's always style nits that go beyond clang-format
<a name="l-297"></a><span class="tm">19:43:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I mean it could check basic things like is_this_snake_case for variable names in theory, but not whether it's a good name in the first place...
<a name="l-298"></a><span class="tm">19:43:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> sur
<a name="l-299"></a><span class="tm">19:43:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-300"></a><span class="tm">19:43:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It's more about the naming convenction (m_, snake_case, CONSTANTS, etc,)
<a name="l-301"></a><span class="tm">19:43:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and the latter is much more important for maintainablility :-)
<a name="l-302"></a><span class="tm">19:43:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> do we have a clang-format file
<a name="l-303"></a><span class="tm">19:43:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">meshcollider:</span> I'd prefer if we didn't use clang-format in scripted diffs. Makes it impossible to reproduce ...
<a name="l-304"></a><span class="tm">19:43:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yes true enough, I guess my point was that they're not all bad.
<a name="l-305"></a><span class="tm">19:43:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> yes
<a name="l-306"></a><span class="tm">19:43:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> yes
<a name="l-307"></a><span class="tm">19:44:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> contrib/devtools/clang-format-diff.py
<a name="l-308"></a><span class="tm">19:44:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> src/.clang-format
<a name="l-309"></a><span class="tm">19:44:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> ah thanks.
<a name="l-310"></a><span class="tm">19:44:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i assume it'd be possible to setup a git alias that shows the current diff, diff'd against the clang-format result
<a name="l-311"></a><span class="tm">19:44:43 </span><span class="nka">* cfields</span> <span class="ac">plays around</span>
<a name="l-312"></a><span class="tm">19:44:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> are you up to write a higher level documentation for the clang-format-diff.py workflow?
<a name="l-313"></a><span class="tm">19:44:49 </span><span class="nka">* MarcoFalke</span> <span class="ac">proposed to add '.style.yapf' and hides</span>
<a name="l-314"></a><span class="tm">19:44:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> right, that's what I remember being written
<a name="l-315"></a><span class="tm">19:44:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I did
<a name="l-316"></a><span class="tm">19:45:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> git diff | cfd
<a name="l-317"></a><span class="tm">19:45:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yapf?
<a name="l-318"></a><span class="tm">19:45:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> general problem with clang format is that it isn't stable across versions, or at least hasn't been historically. In general we don't have a highly consistent enviroment htat people contribute from.
<a name="l-319"></a><span class="tm">19:45:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;ryanofsky&gt;</span> fwiw, i am not bothered by nits whatsoever. at the very least they mean somebody is actually looking at my pr. i also use clang-format and clang-format diff all the time
<a name="l-320"></a><span class="tm">19:45:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> right, that has always bothered about it
<a name="l-321"></a><span class="tm">19:45:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yeah. that
<a name="l-322"></a><span class="tm">19:45:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> also what gmaxwell said
<a name="l-323"></a><span class="tm">19:45:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> The same thing for python
<a name="l-324"></a><span class="tm">19:45:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> well, the version can be fixed on travis, though
<a name="l-325"></a><span class="tm">19:46:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> that's not very shocking
<a name="l-326"></a><span class="tm">19:46:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">ryanofsky:</span> nits should still remain... just not stuff that computers can find and are covered by our code styling rules
<a name="l-327"></a><span class="tm">19:46:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> right, but that makes travis effectively part of your workflow, which is unfortunate
<a name="l-328"></a><span class="tm">19:46:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> you need to be able to run any checks that travis does locally
<a name="l-329"></a><span class="tm">19:46:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> as in, you won't really know a PR is acceptable before pushing and waiting for travis
<a name="l-330"></a><span class="tm">19:46:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> We could give developers a VM image or equivilent, but it's asking a lot.
<a name="l-331"></a><span class="tm">19:46:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> right, or the concrete version if I want to run it locally first
<a name="l-332"></a><span class="tm">19:47:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> Travis is slow, too
<a name="l-333"></a><span class="tm">19:47:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> maybe someone should investigate how stable clang-format/ clang-tidy/ iwyu/ ... are
<a name="l-334"></a><span class="tm">19:47:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> my issue with the nits on PR's is it leads to sloppier review.  When nits get fixed and potentially rebased.  Prior reviewers can get sloppy about assuming that the final version is well reviewed, especially if its happened repeatedly
<a name="l-335"></a><span class="tm">19:47:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Could we not do a check with clang-format-diff.py during "make" and at least place a bold warning (or even refuse to compile *duck*)
<a name="l-336"></a><span class="tm">19:48:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> it would blow up on existing code
<a name="l-337"></a><span class="tm">19:48:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> the problem is that different clang-format versions say different things
<a name="l-338"></a><span class="tm">19:48:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> significant?
<a name="l-339"></a><span class="tm">19:48:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> irrelevant, i think
<a name="l-340"></a><span class="tm">19:48:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> 'make lint' would be nice
<a name="l-341"></a><span class="tm">19:48:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and making something work on your own system, and then seeing travis complain about the exact same things but requiring something else would be pretty demotivating
<a name="l-342"></a><span class="tm">19:48:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that would just run all the checks, for C/C++, for python, for whitespace in docs, etc
<a name="l-343"></a><span class="tm">19:48:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> +1
<a name="l-344"></a><span class="tm">19:48:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> that is more a problem with the intermixing of nits and serious review, and also how github handles tracking comments (them magically vanishing when the code changes)
<a name="l-345"></a><span class="tm">19:49:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Maybe it should by bypassable, but the novice contributor should get warned if he uses invalid code-styling
<a name="l-346"></a><span class="tm">19:49:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> that's no longer true with the 'review' function
<a name="l-347"></a><span class="tm">19:49:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Obviously we should just pull clang into our code tree and ship it too. :P
<a name="l-348"></a><span class="tm">19:49:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> you can see all former review comments, and the code they apply on
<a name="l-349"></a><span class="tm">19:49:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> well, travis and the person that merge can also check
<a name="l-350"></a><span class="tm">19:49:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> oh, that's what is for...
<a name="l-351"></a><span class="tm">19:49:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> sipa, interesting, more reason to use it
<a name="l-352"></a><span class="tm">19:49:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> it just should be possible to do it locally too
<a name="l-353"></a><span class="tm">19:49:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yes, i'd argue that once serious review stars, nits should not be squashed, but should be left as a cleanup commit at the end.  (at least of some kinds)
<a name="l-354"></a><span class="tm">19:49:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yes, you should use it :)
<a name="l-355"></a><span class="tm">19:49:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I'm not so much concerned with forcing people to run it but making it easy
<a name="l-356"></a><span class="tm">19:50:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes. Travis code style check is not what we want in the first place (it helps,.. but you want to catch it before)
<a name="l-357"></a><span class="tm">19:50:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> well if you don't do it before, travis will stop you and you need to wait longer, simple as that :)
<a name="l-358"></a><span class="tm">19:50:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> something i have noticed is that sometimes 'nit' reviews start on PRs which are far from certain they'll be even concept ACKed
<a name="l-359"></a><span class="tm">19:50:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> morcos, we might need to have guidelines for "ACK lockin"
<a name="l-360"></a><span class="tm">19:50:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay... I'll have a look at lint and something simple within the make-process
<a name="l-361"></a><span class="tm">19:50:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that also
<a name="l-362"></a><span class="tm">19:50:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> i have no problem with squashing nits as the pre/post-squash can be diff'd locally. It's rebasing to master that makes re-review a challenge imo.
<a name="l-363"></a><span class="tm">19:51:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yeah... then it adds even more nosie
<a name="l-364"></a><span class="tm">19:51:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> cfields, can be diffed if you locally checked
<a name="l-365"></a><span class="tm">19:51:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> right, i try to avoid rebasing, but i pretty liberally squash nits
<a name="l-366"></a><span class="tm">19:51:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> many times im just reading off of github(lazy)
<a name="l-367"></a><span class="tm">19:51:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> and i don't mind others doing that too, except for very complicated PRs
<a name="l-368"></a><span class="tm">19:51:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> unless it's a particularly intense series of commits
<a name="l-369"></a><span class="tm">19:51:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> that kind of breaks when there's lots of merge conflicts
<a name="l-370"></a><span class="tm">19:51:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> sometimes I wish 'git fetch' could fetch by commit id to fetch individual commits, unfortunately that doesn't work
<a name="l-371"></a><span class="tm">19:52:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> pretty sure github can show the diff from a squash a well, you just have to come up with the url for it
<a name="l-372"></a><span class="tm">19:52:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> well we have contributors who don't feel comfortable (or just don't have the expirence) to do much other than nit reviews. Their contributions are usually pretty helpful and I wouldn't want to ask most of them to stop. We could perhaps ask them to wait a day on new PRs so that there is at least time for Concept NAKs to show up first.
<a name="l-373"></a><span class="tm">19:52:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it can only be used with branch names
<a name="l-374"></a><span class="tm">19:52:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> github can give you the patch for an arbitrary commit id though, but it's kind of annoying to do automatically
<a name="l-375"></a><span class="tm">19:52:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> it is a little sad for someone to show up with a change, and then have two cycles on trivial changes before someone more expirenced comes in and says no-way-because-x.
<a name="l-376"></a><span class="tm">19:53:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yeah...
<a name="l-377"></a><span class="tm">19:53:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;aj&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> might be helpful to tag PRs as looking for concept acks vs looking for nits and style vs looking for tested acks and merging?
<a name="l-378"></a><span class="tm">19:53:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> We could set up a bot to create branches for each utACK that is posted to gh
<a name="l-379"></a><span class="tm">19:53:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> not nitting a PR that doens't have any ACKs of any kind seems like a decent rule
<a name="l-380"></a><span class="tm">19:53:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> on a separate repo that is
<a name="l-381"></a><span class="tm">19:53:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> that'd be kind of nice
<a name="l-382"></a><span class="tm">19:53:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> at the same time rebasing is often good, for example, #8994 could unexpectedly start failing tests even if no new conflicts appear and github says it's all ready to merge it
<a name="l-383"></a><span class="tm">19:53:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8994 | Testchains: Introduce custom chain whose constructor... by jtimon · Pull Request #8994 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-384"></a><span class="tm">19:53:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rebasing is often necessary
<a name="l-385"></a><span class="tm">19:53:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. What aj says. The things is just, unenforced user rules tend to get ignored. :)
<a name="l-386"></a><span class="tm">19:53:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> as long as you learn something from the nits, it's not the end of the world having them concept-nacked later, imo
<a name="l-387"></a><span class="tm">19:54:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> then `git fetch bitcoin_reviewed_commits` will get you all the reviews
<a name="l-388"></a><span class="tm">19:54:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> sometimes you don't know what you're going to do when you read it.. there are certantly PRs where I read them and then come away with no real opinions on it other than "you missed some braces here and there"
<a name="l-389"></a><span class="tm">19:54:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> some files are hotspots and generate a lot of merge conflicts
<a name="l-390"></a><span class="tm">19:54:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> although it's better now that main.cpp is dead
<a name="l-391"></a><span class="tm">19:54:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> no, but some people find it demotivating; 'they made me do more work then threw it out'. :)
<a name="l-392"></a><span class="tm">19:54:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> True
<a name="l-393"></a><span class="tm">19:55:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> these are not the kind of nits that help you learn btter programming :)
<a name="l-394"></a><span class="tm">19:55:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> that can be resolved with a better perspective; bitcoin development is a distributed process, your effort is your contribution not the fact that it was merged, etc.
<a name="l-395"></a><span class="tm">19:55:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> indeed
<a name="l-396"></a><span class="tm">19:55:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> but we can't really send every new contributor to a zen mastery class before they contribute.
<a name="l-397"></a><span class="tm">19:56:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Well, we could... but that would be flagged as spam :-)
<a name="l-398"></a><span class="tm">19:56:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> if it's a nit like 'it's better to use build in function X' or 'the loop can be more efficiently written like this' then I think it's great
<a name="l-399"></a><span class="tm">19:57:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> a slightly different work-flow might be: create a "fixed nits" commit on top of the branch, and squash all nits into that as they arise. Then merge that in without squashing.
<a name="l-400"></a><span class="tm">19:57:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> it makes for ugly commits getting merged in, but avoids the re-review after squash-for-nits issue.
<a name="l-401"></a><span class="tm">19:57:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> So far I find most of the nits I received useful. They either taught me to look up coding practices, or motivated me to figure out how to run a linter.
<a name="l-402"></a><span class="tm">19:57:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> a challenge with that is that we do get new contributions from people with zero git expirence.
<a name="l-403"></a><span class="tm">19:58:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> who think they need to open a new PR to fix a nit :)
<a name="l-404"></a><span class="tm">19:58:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the git basics stuff is explained pretty well in the contributing doc nowadays
<a name="l-405"></a><span class="tm">19:58:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;aj&gt;</span> do people think the +1, +0, -1, concept nak/ack thing from https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/11426#issuecomment-334091207 is good btw?
<a name="l-406"></a><span class="tm">19:58:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I've not gotten the question on how to squash a commit for a long time now
<a name="l-407"></a><span class="tm">19:58:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I've noticed that, I wondered why.
<a name="l-408"></a><span class="tm">19:59:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> oh that's where -0 came from
<a name="l-409"></a><span class="tm">19:59:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Provoostenator&gt;</span> Some projects make a giant squashed merge commit and just point to the original PR (e.g. AngularJS), but that's not ideal for other reasons.
<a name="l-410"></a><span class="tm">19:59:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">aj:</span> yes, I'm a fan
<a name="l-411"></a><span class="tm">19:59:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Provoostenator:</span> we only want to encourage squashing when it's iterative changes, not atomic separate changes
<a name="l-412"></a><span class="tm">19:59:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">aj:</span> I would have preffered that BlueMatt had maintained a nack but answered my questions/rebute, to be honest
<a name="l-413"></a><span class="tm">19:59:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> specifically caues we end up with lots of need for concept review
<a name="l-414"></a><span class="tm">20:00:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> we have lots of prs where lots of folks are +0/-0 and dont think its worth review
<a name="l-415"></a><span class="tm">20:00:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> but they sit open for months
<a name="l-416"></a><span class="tm">20:00:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> which is bad
<a name="l-417"></a><span class="tm">20:00:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> +0 on end meeting
<a name="l-418"></a><span class="tm">20:00:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-419"></a><span class="tm">20:00:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> -0
<a name="l-420"></a><span class="tm">20:00:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> oh, it's that time already
<a name="l-421"></a><span class="tm">20:00:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
