=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:21 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-01-26-19.00.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* coding style  (wumpus, 19:03:50)
  * ACTION: PSA Use clang-format-diff.py before submitting a patch,
    whenever possible.  (MarcoFalke, 19:18:40)
  * ACTION: fix clang-format
    https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9506#issuecomment-271727718
    (MarcoFalke, 19:19:34)

* bug-fixing for 0.14  (wumpus, 19:24:13)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9615 | Wallet
    incremental fee by morcos · Pull Request #9615 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:24:43)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9615 | Wallet
    incremental fee by morcos · Pull Request #9615 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:30:24)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9615 | Wallet
    incremental fee by morcos · Pull Request #9615 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:47:42)

* are we charging adequately for relay?  (wumpus, 19:48:29)



Meeting ended at 19:59:55 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (54)
* morcos (47)
* gmaxwell (34)
* BlueMatt (31)
* sipa (21)
* MarcoFalke (18)
* jtimon (18)
* instagibbs (13)
* cfields (4)
* jonasschnelli (4)
* gribble (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* instagibbs_ (2)
* paveljanik (1)
* kanzure (1)
* achow101 (1)
* bitcoin-git (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4