19:02:43 <wumpus> #startmeeting
19:02:43 <lightningbot> Meeting started Thu Nov 23 19:02:43 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
19:02:43 <lightningbot> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
19:03:06 <wumpus> #bitcoin-core-dev Meeting: wumpus sipa gmaxwell jonasschnelli morcos luke-jr btcdrak sdaftuar jtimon cfields petertodd kanzure bluematt instagibbs phantomcircuit codeshark michagogo marcofalke paveljanik NicolasDorier jl2012 achow101 meshcollider jnewbery maaku fanquake promag
19:04:11 <wumpus> Provoostenator: onboarding?
19:04:15 <wumpus> #topic high priority for review
19:04:24 <jonasschnelli> Should we discuss https://gist.github.com/sipa/125cfa1615946d0c3f3eec2ad7f250a2 (sipas wallet design)?
19:04:26 <wumpus> #link https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
19:04:31 <jonasschnelli> ack
19:04:32 <Provoostenator> I'd like to propose adding a project Onboarding to this list: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects
19:04:43 <BlueMatt> wumpus: lol uhhhhhh its a holiday in .us
19:04:45 * BlueMatt expected meeting was cancelled today
19:04:59 <wumpus> Provoostenator: I don't understand what you mean with onboarding
19:05:10 <sipa> wumpus: bringing new people on board, i assume
19:05:10 <Provoostenator> That project would contain the first PR of any new contributor.
19:05:10 <jonasschnelli> m2
19:05:20 <wumpus> BlueMatt: yes, I asked whether to cancel the meeting earlier today
19:05:30 <sipa> we
19:05:42 <wumpus> BlueMatt: but only luke-jr was for it
19:05:47 <sipa> we're clearly at lower attendance, so let's avoid committing to anything
19:06:00 <sipa> doesn't mean things can't be discussed
19:06:02 <wumpus> I'm fine with cancelling the meeting
19:06:14 <BlueMatt> wumpus: heh, well everyone who would have suggested cancelling was already gone for vacation :p
19:06:23 <wumpus> ok
19:06:31 <wumpus> meeting is cancelled today
19:06:31 <jonasschnelli> Lets keep the meeting running...
19:06:32 <wumpus> #endmeeting