=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:29 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* ACTION: find the bot  (wumpus, 19:02:38)
* High priority for review  (wumpus, 19:03:42)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10387 | Implement
    BIP159, define and signal NODE_NETWORK_LIMITED (pruned peers) by
    jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10387 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    (gribble, 19:05:35)

* put up 0.16 release schedule  (wumpus, 19:06:01)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11089 | Enable
    various p2sh-p2wpkh functionality by luke-jr · Pull Request #11089 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:07:00)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10637 | Coin
    Selection with Murchs algorithm by achow101 · Pull Request #10637 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:07:05)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403 | SegWit
    wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:07:38)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615 | RPC: Allow
    rpcauth configs to specify a 4th parameter naming a specific wallet
    (multiwallet RPC support) by luke-jr · Pull Request #10615 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:09:19)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7965 | Remaining
    instances of ENABLE_WALLET in `libbitcoin_server.a` · Issue #7965 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:12:54)
  * ACTION: refactor #10615 for a "populate JSONRequest" callback, and
    separate out rpcauth stuff  (luke-jr, 19:14:28)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615 | RPC: Allow
    rpcauth configs to specify a 4th parameter naming a specific wallet
    (multiwallet RPC support) by luke-jr · Pull Request #10615 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:14:29)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383 | Basic
    Multiwallet GUI support by luke-jr · Pull Request #11383 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:18:19)

* RPC long poll  (wumpus, 19:19:48)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10554 | ZMQ: add
    publishers for wallet transactions. by somdoron · Pull Request
    #10554 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:29:39)

* segwit wallet support  (wumpus, 19:35:06)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403 | SegWit
    wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:35:52)

* suggested topic: next Bitcoin Core meetup (jnewbery)  (wumpus,
  19:58:59)
  * LINK: https://www.irccloud.com/pastebin/XrHj6tr8  (meshcollider,
    20:03:20)



Meeting ended at 20:03:23 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (79)
* jonasschnelli (62)
* BlueMatt (60)
* sipa (56)
* luke-jr (53)
* gmaxwell (48)
* morcos (15)
* gribble (10)
* cfields (10)
* achow101 (8)
* jnewbery (7)
* meshcollider (5)
* instagibbs (4)
* lightningbot (2)
* promag (2)
* sdaftuar (2)
* Chris_Stewart_5 (1)
* petertodd (1)
* kanzure (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4