=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:52 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* multiwallet-concept  (wumpus, 19:02:00)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7061 | [Wallet]
    Replace -rescan with a new RPC call "rescanblockchain" by
    jonasschnelli · Pull Request #7061 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    (gribble, 19:06:17)
  * LINK:
    https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9662/files#diff-b2bb174788c7409b671c46ccc86034bdR1357
    (jonasschnelli, 19:08:52)

* variable naming style  (wumpus, 19:19:00)

* BIP148  (wumpus, 19:40:26)

* 0.14.2  (wumpus, 19:55:27)



Meeting ended at 20:00:21 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* sipa (93)
* wumpus (58)
* luke-jr (57)
* jonasschnelli (51)
* gmaxwell (35)
* cfields (23)
* morcos (23)
* jtimon (20)
* BlueMatt (7)
* petertodd (7)
* kanzure (7)
* jcorgan (5)
* paveljanik (2)
* sdaftuar (2)
* sdfkjs23 (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* gribble (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4