<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:02:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:02:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Apr  6 19:02:58 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:02:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:03:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gribble:</span> nicks
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:03:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> â€¦ or not :x
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:03:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> hi.
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:03:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#bitcoin-core-dev </span><span class="cmdline">Meeting: wumpus sipa gmaxwell jonasschnelli morcos luke-jr btcdrak sdaftuar jtimon cfields petertodd kanzure bluematt instagibbs phantomcircuit codeshark michagogo marcofalke paveljanik NicolasDorier jl2012 instagibbs</span>
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:03:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> hi, half present
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:03:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:04:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> still breathing
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:04:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> topics?
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:05:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> about 69% present but due to incompatibilities with litecoin that might decrease
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:05:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> absent other suggestions: UASF and/or PoW change? maybe too premature to discuss in dev tho
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:05:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> offtopic for here, i think
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:05:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Let's not go down this road.
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:05:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes I don't think they're good fits for this meeting
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:06:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> thanks for staying above that crap, sipa :)
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:06:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> 0.14.1 status?
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:06:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Maybe someone can dish out review homework?
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:06:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> 0.14.1 status: rc1 was tagged, gitian builds in progress
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:06:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> hi, here, but also not very present.
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:07:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> if none of us are actually here, what are we doing?
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:07:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jeremyrubin&gt;</span> here
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:07:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> here
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:07:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I'll upload binaries tomorrow morning (NL time)
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:08:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> maybe if FC is distracting too many devs, and we have a shortage of topics, meeting should be postponed?
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:08:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> maybe we should just order some pizzas and beers.
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:08:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:08:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> is financial crypto over yet?
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:08:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, might be better to skip this meeting then, doesn't seem people have much to discuss or are not present or half present
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:08:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:08:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> &lt;BlueMatt&gt; same PRs for review this week
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:08:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> shortest meeting eva
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:08:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> anyone want to give updates on what they're working on?
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:09:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:09:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ^ PRs to review
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:09:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> For those who can't directly obtain the osx gitian build req, should we recommend that they do not participate in that part of the gitian process?
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:09:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> good idea. You start?
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:09:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I'm looking at adding a UTXO index by scriptPubKey for sweeping purposes
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:09:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> dinner after FC17 currently ongoing; BlueMatt, roasbeef, ... are here
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> It's just an SDK tar.gz?!
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:09:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> sure
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:09:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> there's a pull for that right?
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:09:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> I don't see why it should be hard nowadays.. but yes, if you don't want to, feel free to skip
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:10:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> the current PR iterates over the entire UTXO set
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:10:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9806
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:10:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> what I'm working on uses a RIPEMD160 to index scripts -&gt; txid
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:10:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I think a lot of non-Mac users have been sharing that with others instead of going through steps of getting it themselves, which defeats the security goal, so it's misleading if multiple people go through the gitian process unless they obtain it themselves.
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:11:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> that's true
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:11:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> not sure how that one is diffrent, but I don't think we need multiple utxo indexes
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:11:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> anyone who didn't make it themselves should delete and make it (or not do osx builds) IMO
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:11:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm working on BFD. roasbeef did inform me in Berlin about the progress they have made for the LND. I'd like to have BFD for the hybrid full block SPV mode.
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:11:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jeremyrubin&gt;</span> I'd like to discuss net_processing refactors. It seems like there is some plan for where that is going, but it's not been made available to me.
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:11:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> the only UTXO index right now is by txid
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:12:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> yes, but the pull I referenced adds an index by scriptPubKey
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:12:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> #9806
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:12:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9806 | txoutsbyaddress index (take 3) by droark Â· Pull Request #9806 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:13:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> althought it isn't mine, I think https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7729 should be added to the list of things to review: that blocks the removal of accounts system
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:13:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> yes, the only reason I had to copy it (from a person I trust very much) is because it makes it possible for me to actually upload the executables. I don't think it's generally useful to build using someone else's macosx sdk file
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:14:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but with luke-jr's instructions to extract it on linux there's not really an excuse anymore
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:15:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i've been working on database/cache/flush/memory usage things
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:15:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> I tend to agree. though please review the *API*, not the code, the code is extremely outdated on that now
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:15:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> thank you, that helps
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:15:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> however I still stand behind the label API as I wrote it down back then, and that's the important part
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:16:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i've been coding and recoding fee estimates for months now.. they'll maybe be a tiny smidge better but infinitely more complicated and will annoy the crap out of everyone to review.  have a nice day.
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:16:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i've been working on CreateNewBlock, so that we have a way to skip recently added transactions if the block income from doing so is below some threshold (to model higher orphan risk)
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:16:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I'd like for us to be able to hash verify some part of the SDK and add that somewhere in the gitian process, I'm pretty sure this is possible
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:16:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> if you'd tar it in a deterministic way (like we do in gitian build process itself) that'd be easily possible
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:16:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jcorgan&gt;</span> please correct me if i'm wrong, but #9806 uses hash of the full script as a key, not extracting the embedded push(es) for and addrindex type key, or am i confused
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:16:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9806 | txoutsbyaddress index (take 3) by droark Â· Pull Request #9806 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:17:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> we'd just need a a script for that
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:17:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> "normalize mac sdk"
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:17:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jcorgan:</span> problem?
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:17:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> agreed
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:17:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jcorgan&gt;</span> not a problem, just making sure i have the correct understanding
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:18:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the files and file names should definitely be the same for everyone, the differences will be in the metadata such as date/time/user and possibly file order
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:19:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I put some more ideas on #7829, not sure what to do about it, a couple of people participated at first, but perhaps the proposed task is too boring, even for newbies, at least I found some functions to make static
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:19:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7829 | Globals: TODO: Experiment: Kill "Params()" by jtimon Â· Pull Request #7829 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:20:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jcorgan:</span> not sure, but I didn't see a need for it myself
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:20:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jcorgan&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> wondering if the name 'txoutsbyaddressindex' is misleading
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:20:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jcorgan:</span> definitely, since it has nothing to do with addresses, but I already complained about that in a past PR it appears XD
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:20:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jcorgan&gt;</span> anyway, not sure what the current topic is, i'll take this to the PR comments
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:20:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> also worked on #9494 #10119 #10118 and more things to potentially do afterwards
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:20:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9494 | Introduce an ArgsManager class encapsulating cs_args, mapArgs and mapMultiArgs by jtimon Â· Pull Request #9494 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:20:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10119 | Util: Remove ArgsManager wrappers: by jtimon Â· Pull Request #10119 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:20:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10118 | Util: Remove redundant calls to argsGlobal.IsArgSet() by jtimon Â· Pull Request #10118 Â· bitcoin/bitcoin Â· GitHub
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:23:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> any other topics or updates?
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:23:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> quiet times!
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:23:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jcorgan&gt;</span> maybe here it is quiet :)
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:24:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> wumpus mentioned luke's script, for the record it is located here: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/README_osx.md
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:24:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's close the meeting early then
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:24:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. /end
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:24:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> yup
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:24:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> well, instructions at least
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:24:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/README_osx.md</span>
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:24:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
