=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:07 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-14-19.00.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* high priority for review  (wumpus, 19:01:51)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11167 | Full BIP173
    (Bech32) support by sipa · Pull Request #11167 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:04:29)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11089 | Enable
    various p2sh-p2wpkh functionality by luke-jr · Pull Request #11089 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:04:41)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10663 | net: split
    resolve out of connect by theuni · Pull Request #10663 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:06:19)
  * ACTION: Make -resetguisettings dump settings to troubleshooting file
    in datadir  (wumpus, 19:11:06)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11171 | RC2 Exits
    After Initialization · Issue #11171 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    (gribble, 19:15:02)
  * LINK:
    https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/0.15/src/qt/sendcoinsdialog.cpp#L131
    <-- the bug  (BlueMatt, 19:22:50)
  * LINK:
    https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/6ba2214e0fe57ecb9271819d2422ec44a9020a8d
    fixes it for now  (BlueMatt, 19:35:26)

* segwit-by-default support in 0.15.1  (wumpus, 19:35:46)



Meeting ended at 19:59:45 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (98)
* gmaxwell (50)
* sipa (46)
* jonasschnelli (46)
* BlueMatt (44)
* achow101 (33)
* morcos (23)
* instagibbs (19)
* cfields_ (16)
* jtimon (8)
* harrymm (5)
* gribble (4)
* lightningbot (2)
* dgenr8 (1)
* Chris_Stewart_5 (1)
* michagogo (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4