<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:01:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:01:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Jul 13 19:01:40 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:01:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:01:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Hi
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:01:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i'm here for 30 mins
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:01:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:01:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I'm here until I pass out &lt;.&lt;
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:01:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:02:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> proposed topics?
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:02:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:02:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> possible topic: 0.15 feature freeze
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:02:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> it's soon, july 16th
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:02:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:02:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> review begging as first topic ?
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:02:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">PSA:</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9961, feature freeze is sunday (which is an awful day, it'll probably be monday in practice)
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:03:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">high priority for review</span>
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:03:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8</span>
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:03:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> everything marked as 0.15?
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:03:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> :p
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:03:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> we can delay the feature freeze to July 16th, 2018 to avoid a Sunday
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:04:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> hi.
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:04:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#10711 </span><span class="cmdline">can be removed from high-priority as its not for 0.15</span>
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:04:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10711 | [tests] Introduce TestNode by jnewbery · Pull Request #10711 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:04:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agree with that jnewbery?
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:04:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Please add #10706 to high priority i guess, since the PR's it was depending on were merged
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:04:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10706 | Improve wallet fee logic and fix GUI bugs by morcos · Pull Request #10706 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:04:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i think i asked him, but he stepped away
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:04:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm removing the 0.15 milestone from #10240 (will def. not make it)
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:04:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10240 | Add HD wallet auto-restore functionality by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10240 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:05:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> no
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:05:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> since it seems #8498 cannot be priority for some reason that scapes me, what about #10757 from me ?
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:05:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8498 | Near-Bugfix: Optimization: Minimize the number of times it is checked that no money... by jtimon · Pull Request #8498 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:05:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10757 | RPC: Introduce getblockstats to plot things by jtimon · Pull Request #10757 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:05:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you want that in?
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:05:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> if we remove that from 0.15, we must revert the hd split
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:05:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I tend to agree with achow101 - it's better to use the 0.15 tag now for high priority for review
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:05:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> sipa, ?
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:05:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> proposed topic then: Hd split / hd restore
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:05:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#9566 </span><span class="cmdline">can be removed from 0.15</span>
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:05:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9566 | threading: use std::chrono for timestamps by theuni · Pull Request #9566 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:05:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i think its still helpful to distinguish between hope for 0.15 and really need
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:06:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/25
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:06:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I think if we do not fix the restore we need to disable HD by default. The current situation can pretty easily lead to funds loss.
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:06:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but yes i also agree we need to clean up the 0.15 milestone list
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:06:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> bumped to 0.16
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:06:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> thanks
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:06:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> that would be very confusing to users, since older versions have HD
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:07:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yess please remove 10711
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:07:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I can work on the HD restrore. But It's pretty complex with pruning / encrypted wallets... the PR is already large and will get bigger...
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:07:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> If there is enough review power, we can try for 0.15
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:07:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> E.g. just pick up a walled you'd previously saved, rescan won't move the keypool forward, and you'll end up missing transactions (then discarding wallets with money), and handing out addresses to people you already gave to other people and misattributing payments.
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:07:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I can have it overhauled by tuesday
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:07:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jnewbery:</span> done
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:07:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> Yeah.. is also true for all other wallets with gap limits of 5 (most do)
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:07:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We should def. do better
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:08:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> can just the wallet-format-touching parts of HD restore be prioritised? eg, move out the actual restoring logic?
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:08:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> this is not true for anything that automatically tops up the keypool
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:08:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> What about just provide HD restore for non-pruning (to reduce the size)?
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:08:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> mhm, only #10652 in project 8...
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:08:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10652 | Small step towards demangling cs_main from CNodeState by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10652 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:09:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> most HD wallets in the wilde stop topping the window futher up if a gap of &gt;5&lt; keys where found
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:09:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> yes
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:09:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> to that extent that thats true at least in other cases those wallets behaviors are well documented and the interfaces is built around them, they're also used almost exclusively for personal use, rather than industrial use... (and it's not completely true because if there isn't a long gap they do handling it right and we do not)
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:09:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> but we don't top up at all
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> Yes. Not saying that is better. :)
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:09:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> and hd split makes it worse, because it risks reusing a key that was previously used as change as a payment address
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:09:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I just wanted to re-state the HD restore in general is a broken thing
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:09:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> making you miss it as incoming payment
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:09:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> So what should we do?
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:10:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> fix it
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:10:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#10240 </span><span class="cmdline">is a bug fix</span>
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:10:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10240 | Add HD wallet auto-restore functionality by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10240 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:10:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Agree
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:10:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. Then we have more time.. :)
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:10:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Right now this is responsible for several serious bugs in our behavior, which regressed vs the past, and will predictable result in funds loss through several different vectors.  I don't see an easy workaround to prevent exposure-- I thought perhaps refusing to load a wallet if the tip doesn't match the chain tip, but thats too cumbersome and disruptive.
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:10:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Since we have great reviewers, .. I'm convinced we get it in
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:11:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> 10240 (when ready) is an example of something that should also be on high-priority...  it's going to take some review time and its important to get in  (in addition to 0.15 milestone)
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:11:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. I though it not going to make it for 0.15 thats why I moved focus away.. but I see the issue now better
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:11:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *thought
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:11:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonas:</span> anything I can do to help for 10240? Would you like me to rebase it?
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:12:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, will add 10240
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:12:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jnewbery:</span> Please take over if you can
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:12:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> rescanning beyond your pruning depth should already be an issue? what do we do in that case?
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:12:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> what about the signrawtransaction splitting stuff, is that still aimed for 0.15?
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:12:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> sure. I'll take it
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:12:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> the PR halts validation
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:12:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jnewbery:</span> You are now my personal hero for the day.
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:12:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> no, i mean right now
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:12:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> what do we do if we try to rescan beyond the prune depth
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:12:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I'd like it to be. and the validateaddress stuff as that is related to #7965
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:12:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7965 | Remaining instances of ENABLE_WALLET in `libbitcoin_server.a` · Issue #7965 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:13:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I don't know: :/
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:13:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I guess you get an expection
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:13:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so, i think pruning is not relevant for 10240
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:13:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> the rescan calls just say no if you try that.
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:14:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it's a problem right now if you rescan beyong the pruning depth, and it remains so
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:14:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> A large part of 10240 is about haling the full node in pruning... dropping that would reduce the review workload
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:15:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> i think it should stop regardless of pruning
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:15:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> So. Drop the pruning option from 10240?
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:15:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it's crazy that your wallet would go out of sync with your node
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:15:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> that's a totally unsupported state right now
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:15:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> From the PR on encrypted wallets:
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:15:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Same as above, but, If we hit the gap limit with an encrypted wallet, we can't topup the keypool. In that case, we just pause the sync (not the node, only the wallet).
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:15:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> maybe that can be enabled later, once the wallet is more independent from the node
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:16:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but i think 10240 should just stop sync entirely if your wallet is encrypted and the keypool runs out
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:16:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> Anyone familiar enough with constraint solving to help me out with this model? https://gist.github.com/RHavar/0710144c713033d42f8f443a99fefbb7
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:16:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> well, if you use a backup wallet you have the same state
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:16:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">rhavar:</span> not now, meeting
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:16:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> rhavar, ask again in 45 min :P
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:16:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> at startup; not anymore after rescan
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:16:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> during normal operation the wallet is always in sync with the node
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:16:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Thats true
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:16:59 </span><span class="nka">* luke-jr</span> <span class="ac">wonders if a halted node will rewind based on headers</span>
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:17:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> All that because of hardened derivation!
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:17:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it's also easy to avoid; using 10000 keys in the keypool
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:17:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (indeed, which I also keep recommending)
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:17:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> You don't avoid it, you just make the timespan for the possible impact smaller
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:18:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> okay
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:18:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> And 10000 is just inefficient
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:18:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> well, i think all of that isn't the priority now
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:18:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> What about only allowing non-hardened derivation for encrypted wallets and disable all pkey export calls?
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:18:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> for 0.15, we need to have automatic marking of seen keys
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:19:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> yes, i like that, but not 0.15
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:19:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. jnewbery will focus on 10240 (he will rebase and overhaul I guess)
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:19:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> we have a program that requires &gt;1GB ram, runs best with &gt;8GB ram, that does hours of processing just to start up-- I don't think worrying about 320k of key material is a major concern.
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:19:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> awesome; let's discuss further on the 10240 PR
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:20:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (also 1000 works too, it 10k is really too much.)
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:20:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> should not be a concern. But it's still an inefficient fix for the problem we have
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:20:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ack. Thanks jnewbery
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:20:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Inefficient compared to what?  Inefficient to taking away private key export? In efficient compared to even one moment of one users time?
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:21:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> no problem. Topic suggestion: #10650
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:21:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10650 | Multiwallet: add RPC endpoint support by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10650 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:21:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> Inefficient compared to support pub key derivation for encrypted keys or to topup the keypool on the fly
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:21:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> are you actively trying to sabotage the project?
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:22:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> please
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:22:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:22:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> there are good reasons to support hardened and unhardered derivation both; adding a feature is not a substitute for fixing a problem we have
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:22:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> was that a joke or a serious question?
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:22:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> using non-hardened derivation implies you'll need to have a big keypool; it comes with that design choice
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:23:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Sorry to be rude, but I am just gobsmacked about aruging that setting the keypool to be big "on the order of tens or hundreds of kilobytes" is opposed compared to this long saw about public derrivation; which we aren't doing for the wallet at least now.
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:23:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> So it seems to me like that you're intentionally in broken directions because you disagree with another decision.
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:24:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> er intentionally pushing in
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:24:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I though avoiding keypool with non-hardened derivation may be seen as a benefit for some of the users.. but it seems that i'm wrong. But at least it's not intentional sabotage
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:24:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> let's move on from this at least duing the meeting, i think we all agree that the keypool can be bigger than 200 regardless of otehr chnages we make
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:25:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Do we? it keeps getting argued against.
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:25:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> thats why i ended it by saying we all agree. :)
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:25:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> well, having non-hardened derivation with disabled key export is a perfectly fine _feature_ - but it's not usable for everyone (some people need key export), and for those users, we'll need to be able to deal with hardened derivation
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:25:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so let's do that
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:25:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> next topic
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:25:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:25:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">NicolasDorier:</span> how does #9728 interact with rescan ?
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:25:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Agree
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:25:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9728 | Can create Watch Only HD wallet with -hdwatchonly by NicolasDorier · Pull Request #9728 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:25:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jtimon, it doesn't do anything special for now
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:26:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> same as hardened
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:26:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> other topics?
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:26:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> jnewbery suggested 10650
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:27:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> I think we're almost there with 10650. Only major sticking point is not having a default wallet when there are multiple wallets loaded
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:27:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> I see, so it kind of depends on #10240 ?
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:27:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10240 | Add HD wallet auto-restore functionality by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10240 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:27:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jtimon, we can chat offline about that after meeting
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:27:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">Multiwallet: add RPC endpoint support</span>
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:27:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> sure
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:28:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I just pushed the overhaule of 10650 that fixes the points reported by ryanofsky jnewbery and morcos
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:28:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *overhaul
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:28:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> cool
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:28:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#10650</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:28:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10650 | Multiwallet: add RPC endpoint support by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10650 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:28:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> great! Will review
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:28:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jnewbery&gt;</span> thanks jonas
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:29:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> nice
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:29:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes, excellent.  woo!
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:29:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I very much dislike passing wallet by name. That just makes the GUI side ugly
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:29:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> you mean the selecting walltes by name?
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:29:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> as opposed to what? (sorry, i'm not up to date)
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:29:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> as opposed to passing a CWallet* on the JSONRPCRequest
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:30:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> that seems like something that's easy to change later
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:30:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> the GUI would have to go CWallet* -&gt; string -&gt; CWallet*
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:30:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> and hope it matches the right one up
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:30:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I suppose, yes
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:30:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, indeed, can we avoid long discussions about small details that don't matter for correctness?
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:30:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we really want this in before the feature freeze
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:30:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so let's be pracical about it
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:30:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> &lt;3
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:30:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. WalletID or similar can be done later.
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:31:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yep
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:32:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> One thing that is a bit cumbersome is that you have to remove the -wallet argument from bitcoin-cli when calling a non wallet command
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:32:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The endpoint node/wallet split is not very practical from the -cli use perspective
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:32:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well it makes some sense
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:32:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> hmm, bitcoin-cli reads bitcoin.conf, doesn't it? how does that interact? :/
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:32:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> then make the cli command handle that internally?
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:33:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> also, we can take some clunkyness with this expiremental feature in 0.15.
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:33:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> Yes. I though of that.
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:33:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> e.g. fix cli later.
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:33:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Sure.
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:33:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> If you want to use multiwallet now, you need to add/remove -wallet when fiddling with -cli
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:33:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> IMO a clean separation between wallet and non wallet commands is good
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:33:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> fixing cli could mean changing the -wallet= to something else
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:33:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> even if it seems cumbersome in the beginning
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:34:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> how do yuo remove it, if it's in bitcoin.conf?
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:34:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, yeah, something that means "use wallet" not "load wallet"
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:34:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Its good.
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:34:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> ? I can't follow
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:34:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> bitcoin-cli calls with -wallet that don't need it could just ignore the extra argument and spit a warning somehwere or something?
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:34:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I mean it'd be easy to put every non-wallet command on wallet endpoints as well, but that's something that is awfullly hard to change later
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:34:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> typical multiwallet use case has wallet=abc.db \n wallet=def.db in bitcoin.conf
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:34:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> there are a bunch of things that the wallet - even after separation - will need access to (like fee estimates, mempool, ...)... i think it's fine if those remain inside the v1/wallet API (and also accessible as node commands)
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:34:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> wait.. that's actually a good point!
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:34:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> bitcoin-cli will get these options too.
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:34:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes.. haven't tested that. :/
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:35:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> instagibbs's -usewallet or similar seems like a good solution
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:35:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> it likely takes the first wallet arg and uses that
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:35:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. I think -usewallet is better
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:35:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so i think i may agree with having pretty much everything available through the wallet endpoint
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:35:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> luke-jr, something like that, if it's not complicating something else
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:35:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (but not getinfo) *ducks*
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:36:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> It's an expiremental feature, API isn't table. The endpoint can be leaky for now.
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:36:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> it's also easier to collapse args later than to split them, if we end up regretting it
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:36:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I guess we can leave it for now we just need to mark the /v1 *EXPERIMENTAL* in the release notes
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:36:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> yes please
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:36:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:36:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> s/table/stable/
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:37:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> And I think the alternative is to not have it at all, which isn't preferable.
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:37:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> should do that anyway
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:37:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> absolutely
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:37:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> as long as it doesn't cause regressions for single-wallet mode
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:38:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that would be unacceptable - but everything new is experimental
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:38:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:39:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I guess user feedback will also help us how to extend this further
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:39:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> indeed
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:40:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But once 10650 is in, we have finally usable multiwallet in Core! That's a big step.
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:40:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> it is!
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:40:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> And it wasn't the first try.
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:41:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> hehe multiwallet slipped so many releases it's a shame
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:41:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, is a nice feature to anounce in 0.15, even if as experimental
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:42:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> just to repeat some other happy results briefly: my reindex-chainstate to 450k with infinity dbcache runs about 40% faster on master than on 0.14.2
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:42:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> what do you mean by "infinity dbcache"?
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:42:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> wow
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:42:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> which reminds me, someone should really write a release notes section about all the wonderful perf improvements in 0.15
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:42:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> dbcache sufficient for the entire utxo sets
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:43:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I've already been talking to drak about some blog posts and whatnot on it.
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:43:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> everything from crc instruction support in leveldb to the new and better database formats, to faster validation, etc
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:43:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ah, cool!
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:43:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> don't forget tx validation caching; that's massive for performance at the tip
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:43:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> ^
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:43:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:43:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (just somewhat harder to benchmark and give cool numbers for)
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:44:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> around 6-8GB in 0.15, in practice (and more in 0.14.2, due to the blowup at flushing time)
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:44:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that's still pretty small fortunately :)
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:45:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Was 2GB not that long ago.
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:45:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> be interesting to know why UTXO growth has stopped temporarily...
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:46:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> if you know, post it here: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/56513/why-has-utxo-set-stopped-growing-since-2017-06-03
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:46:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> (total size has been shrinking for a month now)
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:47:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> could easily be someone ran out of money for an attack, and is spending the coins again
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:47:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/56513/why-has-utxo-set-stopped-growing-since-2017-06-03</span>
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:49:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> any other topics?
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:49:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> many more possible explanations...
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:49:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> maybe a reminder that Tokyo Core is in a few weeks
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:50:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> 2 weeks specifically
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:50:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> https://coredev.tech/tokyo.html lots of unconfirmed invites still
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:51:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> kind of a hike for those not already in area for other reasons
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:51:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> oh, missed that one, I guess I can confirm now I'm not attending
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:51:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I'm not coming to tokyo core, but will be in the SF one in september
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:51:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> great!
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:51:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> SF is pretty full booked..
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:52:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Not saying we running out of space, but &gt;20 confirmed
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:52:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you're coming too? great
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:52:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, of course
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:53:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (i live nearby)
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:53:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> do we have a location for the sf meetup?
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:54:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> https://coredev.tech/nextmeeting.html
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:54:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, but it's still possible it will change
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:55:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> depending on just how large the room needs to be I guess :-)
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:55:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> will we finally activate segwit there? *ducks*
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:55:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> the day it stopped growing is the day alphabay shut down
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:55:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> it'll already be active by then
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:56:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> hopefully
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:56:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">rhavar:</span> interesting!
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:56:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> rhavar, ? what date did it go down
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:56:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> the 3rd i think
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:56:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> been holding/dropping since 3rd of June though
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:56:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> might be contributing factor still..
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:57:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> sorry, is meeting done
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:57:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> oh, sorry -- I'm a month off
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:57:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> 3 minutes
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:57:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> alphabay shut down the 3rd of july
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:57:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;rhavar&gt;</span> and that question was 3rd of june
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:57:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> my SWAG: I think internalizing customer transaction costs did the equiv of fees for exchange trading in China
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:58:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> seems time to end the meeting, speculation about the reason for the stop of utxo growth is interesting but not a bitcoin core meeting topic
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:58:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
