<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:29 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li>
<ol type="a">
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">find the
    bot</span> <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-14'>wumpus</a>,
    19:02:38)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">High priority for review</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-19'>wumpus</a>, 19:03:42)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10387">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10387</a>
    | Implement BIP159, define and signal NODE_NETWORK_LIMITED (pruned
    peers) by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #10387 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-30'>gribble</a>,
    19:05:35)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">put up 0.16 release schedule</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-34'>wumpus</a>, 19:06:01)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11089">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11089</a>
    | Enable various p2sh-p2wpkh functionality by luke-jr · Pull Request
    #11089 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-42'>gribble</a>,
    19:07:00)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10637">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10637</a>
    | Coin Selection with Murchs algorithm by achow101 · Pull Request
    #10637 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-44'>gribble</a>,
    19:07:05)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403</a>
    | SegWit wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-49'>gribble</a>,
    19:07:38)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615</a>
    | RPC: Allow rpcauth configs to specify a 4th parameter naming a
    specific wallet (multiwallet RPC support) by luke-jr · Pull Request
    #10615 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-59'>gribble</a>,
    19:09:19)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7965">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7965</a>
    | Remaining instances of ENABLE_WALLET in `libbitcoin_server.a` ·
    Issue #7965 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-83'>gribble</a>,
    19:12:54)</span></li>
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">refactor
    #10615 for a "populate JSONRequest" callback, and separate out
    rpcauth stuff</span> <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-93'>luke-jr</a>,
    19:14:28)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10615</a>
    | RPC: Allow rpcauth configs to specify a 4th parameter naming a
    specific wallet (multiwallet RPC support) by luke-jr · Pull Request
    #10615 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-94'>gribble</a>,
    19:14:29)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383</a>
    | Basic Multiwallet GUI support by luke-jr · Pull Request #11383 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-121'>gribble</a>,
    19:18:19)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">RPC long poll</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-130'>wumpus</a>, 19:19:48)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10554">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10554</a>
    | ZMQ: add publishers for wallet transactions. by somdoron · Pull
    Request #10554 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-218'>gribble</a>,
    19:29:39)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">segwit wallet support</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-257'>wumpus</a>, 19:35:06)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403</a>
    | SegWit wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-263'>gribble</a>,
    19:35:52)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">suggested topic: next Bitcoin Core meetup (jnewbery)</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-386'>wumpus</a>, 19:58:59)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://www.irccloud.com/pastebin/XrHj6tr8">https://www.irccloud.com/pastebin/XrHj6tr8</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html#l-425'>meshcollider</a>,
    20:03:20)</span></li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 20:03:23 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-09-28-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>find the bot</li>
  <li>refactor #10615 for a "populate JSONRequest" callback, and separate out rpcauth stuff</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>wumpus (79)</li>
  <li>jonasschnelli (62)</li>
  <li>BlueMatt (60)</li>
  <li>sipa (56)</li>
  <li>luke-jr (53)</li>
  <li>gmaxwell (48)</li>
  <li>morcos (15)</li>
  <li>gribble (10)</li>
  <li>cfields (10)</li>
  <li>achow101 (8)</li>
  <li>jnewbery (7)</li>
  <li>meshcollider (5)</li>
  <li>instagibbs (4)</li>
  <li>lightningbot (2)</li>
  <li>promag (2)</li>
  <li>sdaftuar (2)</li>
  <li>Chris_Stewart_5 (1)</li>
  <li>petertodd (1)</li>
  <li>kanzure (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
