<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:12 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10652">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10652</a>
    | Small step towards demangling cs_main from CNodeState by
    TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10652 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-12'>gribble</a>,
    19:01:31)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">high priority for review</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-18'>wumpus</a>, 19:02:33)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-19'>wumpus</a>,
    19:02:35)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10179">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10179</a>
    | Give CValidationInterface Support for calling notifications on the
    CScheduler Thread by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10179 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-22'>gribble</a>,
    19:03:11)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10543">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10543</a>
    | Change API to estimaterawfee by morcos · Pull Request #10543 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-32'>gribble</a>,
    19:04:26)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10589">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10589</a>
    | More economical fee estimates for RBF and RPC options to control
    by morcos · Pull Request #10589 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-33'>gribble</a>,
    19:04:27)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">short update on signature aggregation</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-47'>wumpus</a>, 19:07:40)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/285.pdf">https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/285.pdf</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-66'>jonasschnelli</a>,
    19:10:31)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/multisignatures-ccs.pdf">https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/multisignatures-ccs.pdf</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-74'>sipa</a>,
    19:12:08)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/multisignatures-ccs.pdf">https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/multisignatures-ccs.pdf</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-77'>wumpus</a>,
    19:12:26)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">fee changes needed for 0.15</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-96'>wumpus</a>, 19:15:27)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10590">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10590</a>
    | Access to longer fee estimates using GUI · Issue #10590 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-102'>gribble</a>,
    19:16:36)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10707">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10707</a>
    | Better API for estimatesmartfee RPC by morcos · Pull Request
    #10707 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-106'>gribble</a>,
    19:17:54)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10333">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10333</a>
    | [wallet] fee fixes: always create change, adjust value, and p… by
    instagibbs · Pull Request #10333 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-110'>gribble</a>,
    19:18:22)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">the need for the watchonly rpc flag after multiwallet (sipa)</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-169'>wumpus</a>, 19:27:22)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9662">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9662</a>
    | Add `-disablehot` mode: a sane mode for watchonly-wallets by
    jonasschnelli · Pull Request #9662 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-178'>gribble</a>,
    19:28:25)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">rolling utxo hashes</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-259'>wumpus</a>, 19:36:19)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10434">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10434</a>
    | [WIP] 3072-bit MuHash based hash_serialized by sipa · Pull Request
    #10434 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html#l-336'>gribble</a>,
    19:54:09)</span></li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 19:59:24 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-06-29-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>(none)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>wumpus (82)</li>
  <li>sipa (81)</li>
  <li>gmaxwell (47)</li>
  <li>jonasschnelli (34)</li>
  <li>morcos (30)</li>
  <li>BlueMatt (27)</li>
  <li>instagibbs (22)</li>
  <li>sdaftuar (10)</li>
  <li>gribble (9)</li>
  <li>praxeology (6)</li>
  <li>cfields (5)</li>
  <li>lightningbot (2)</li>
  <li>kanzure (1)</li>
  <li>achow101 (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
