<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:52 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li><b class="TOPIC">multiwallet-concept</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-11'>wumpus</a>, 19:02:00)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7061">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7061</a>
    | [Wallet] Replace -rescan with a new RPC call "rescanblockchain" by
    jonasschnelli · Pull Request #7061 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-39'>gribble</a>,
    19:06:17)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9662/files#diff-b2bb174788c7409b671c46ccc86034bdR1357">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9662/files#diff-b2bb174788c7409b671c46ccc86034bdR1357</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-51'>jonasschnelli</a>,
    19:08:52)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">variable naming style</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-118'>wumpus</a>, 19:19:00)</span>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">BIP148</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-267'>wumpus</a>, 19:40:26)</span>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">0.14.2</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html#l-360'>wumpus</a>, 19:55:27)</span>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 20:00:21 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-05-25-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>(none)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>sipa (93)</li>
  <li>wumpus (58)</li>
  <li>luke-jr (57)</li>
  <li>jonasschnelli (51)</li>
  <li>gmaxwell (35)</li>
  <li>cfields (23)</li>
  <li>morcos (23)</li>
  <li>jtimon (20)</li>
  <li>BlueMatt (7)</li>
  <li>petertodd (7)</li>
  <li>kanzure (7)</li>
  <li>jcorgan (5)</li>
  <li>paveljanik (2)</li>
  <li>sdaftuar (2)</li>
  <li>sdfkjs23 (2)</li>
  <li>lightningbot (2)</li>
  <li>gribble (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
