<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:04 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li><b class="TOPIC">high priority for review</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-13'>wumpus</a>, 19:02:11)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11639">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11639</a>
    | Rewrite the interface between validation and net_processing wrt
    DoS by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #11639 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-15'>gribble</a>,
    19:02:18)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10286">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10286</a>
    | Call wallet notify callbacks in scheduler thread (without cs_main)
    by TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10286 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-19'>gribble</a>,
    19:03:27)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383</a>
    | Basic Multiwallet GUI support by luke-jr · Pull Request #11383 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-23'>gribble</a>,
    19:04:18)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">rpc console for multi wallet</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-30'>wumpus</a>, 19:07:01)</span>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">encrypted wallets by default</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-146'>wumpus</a>, 19:23:11)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11398">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11398</a>
    | Hardcode CSV and SEGWIT deployment by jl2012 · Pull Request #11398
    · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-148'>gribble</a>,
    19:23:20)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11363">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11363</a>
    | net: Split socket create/connect by theuni · Pull Request #11363 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-299'>gribble</a>,
    19:49:59)</span></li>
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383">https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11383</a>
    | Basic Multiwallet GUI support by luke-jr · Pull Request #11383 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-302'>gribble</a>,
    19:51:07)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">DDoS network stats</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html#l-316'>wumpus</a>, 19:54:40)</span>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 20:01:11 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-16-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>(none)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>wumpus (93)</li>
  <li>luke-jr (46)</li>
  <li>gmaxwell (45)</li>
  <li>jonasschnelli (38)</li>
  <li>achow101 (33)</li>
  <li>promag (18)</li>
  <li>jtimon (18)</li>
  <li>morcos (13)</li>
  <li>sipa (10)</li>
  <li>BlueMatt (10)</li>
  <li>gribble (6)</li>
  <li>meshcollider (5)</li>
  <li>jnewbery (4)</li>
  <li>MarcoFalke (2)</li>
  <li>sdaftuar (2)</li>
  <li>lightningbot (2)</li>
  <li>Chris_Stewart_5 (1)</li>
  <li>kanzure (1)</li>
  <li>bitcoin-git (1)</li>
  <li>Dizzle (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
