=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:02:18 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-09-19.02.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* 0.15.1  (wumpus, 19:03:04)
  * ACTION: release 0.15.1  (wumpus, 19:07:08)

* HIgh priority for review  (wumpus, 19:07:18)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403 | SegWit
    wallet support by sipa · Pull Request #11403 · bitcoin/bitcoin ·
    GitHub  (gribble, 19:08:57)
  * ACTION: put segwit wallet in the next major release  (MarcoFalke,
    19:13:02)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10286 | Call wallet
    notify callbacks in scheduler thread (without cs_main) by
    TheBlueMatt · Pull Request #10286 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
    (gribble, 19:13:48)

* Signing key for gitian executables (MarcoFalke)  (wumpus, 19:17:38)
  * ACTION: Register "Bitcoin Core Code Signing Association"
    (MarcoFalke, 19:28:41)



Meeting ended at 19:36:19 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (50)
* jonasschnelli (41)
* BlueMatt (32)
* sipa (21)
* gmaxwell (21)
* cfields (20)
* morcos (20)
* luke-jr (18)
* achow101 (15)
* MarcoFalke (11)
* meshcollider (11)
* promag (8)
* Provoostenator (6)
* sdaftuar (5)
* kanzure (4)
* instagibbs (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* gribble (2)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4