<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Sep 14 19:00:07 2017 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> present
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:00:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you're late
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:00:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Hy
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:00:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#bitcoin-core-dev </span><span class="cmdline">Meeting: wumpus sipa gmaxwell jonasschnelli morcos luke-jr btcdrak sdaftuar jtimon cfields petertodd kanzure bluematt instagibbs phantomcircuit codeshark michagogo marcofalke paveljanik NicolasDorier jl2012 achow101</span>
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:00:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> short topic: congrats for 0.15.0!
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Chris_Stewart_5&gt;</span> yay!
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:01:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> woohoo
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:01:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> congrats and thanks everyone
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:01:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> \o/
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:01:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> !
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:01:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;harrymm&gt;</span> :)
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:01:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">high priority for review</span>
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:01:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> beatings will continue until 0.15.1 is out the door
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:02:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we managed to merge quite a lot during the coredev meet, so there's some place for new things in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:03:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so any suggestions?
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:03:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:03:52 </span><span class="nka">* BlueMatt</span> <span class="ac">is keeping hi</span>
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:03:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> s
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:03:57 </span><span class="nka">* sipa</span> <span class="ac">also</span>
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:04:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you dont have one
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:04:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anything for 0.15.1 maybe?
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:04:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#11167 </span><span class="cmdline">then</span>
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:04:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11167 | Full BIP173 (Bech32) support by sipa · Pull Request #11167 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:04:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#11089</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:04:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11089 | Enable various p2sh-p2wpkh functionality by luke-jr · Pull Request #11089 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:04:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> added 11167
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:04:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> where are we on 0.15.1?
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:05:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> i have a pretty long stream of stuff to prep for libevent, but i don't want to burn everyone out by nagging too much. would you all prefer a few prs, all of which build on each-other, and a final one that incorporates everything?
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:05:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'll work on the segwit-by-default stuff for 0.15.1
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:05:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> added 11089
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:06:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> (#10663 is the first of those. It's by no means high priority, other than it's necessary for the rest)
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:06:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields_:</span> that depends; if some part stands on itself, it might make sense to PR it first then give it as a blocker
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:06:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10663 | net: split resolve out of connect by theuni · Pull Request #10663 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:06:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that says enough, added 10663
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:06:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> cfields_ I Prefer a single one to get the overall pictures
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:07:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> thanks
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:07:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but if it's a single one there's just so damn much to review
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:07:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jonasschnelli, or all of them, chained, with backpointers to first one to review
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:07:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> this gui crash issues should be considered a 0.15.1 blocker, but we still aren't sure of the precise cause.
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:07:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> sure, but you cant merge that...opening one which will be final eventually and then breaking it into chunks is also ok
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:07:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> agree
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:07:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yup :(
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:07:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> ok, i can break them up into nice chunks, and have a tracking PR with them all rebased on top of eachother
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:07:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> considering the flood of reports I am really no longer able to believe we didn't recently introduce it.
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:07:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> i think that's pretty common these days
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:08:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields_:</span> sounds good to me
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:08:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (maybe via a dep upgrade)
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:08:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> o/
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:08:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> one for conceptual overview and multiple for real merge
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:08:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> agreed
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:08:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> possible that other clients are dinking with config files?
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:09:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> (sorry phone typping)
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:09:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> that was a theory I had too but have seen no evidence of it.
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:09:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">harrymm:</span> have you run bitcoin unlimited or bitcoin cash or likewise on that system you crashed on?
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:09:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Wouldn't we see 0.14 reports in that case
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:09:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we really need a config or regtest dump from someone that has the issue
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:09:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">harrymm:</span> how are those -qt debug symbols coming?
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:09:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> before they run -resetguisettings
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:09:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> in retrospect we should have made resetguisettings dump the settings to a backup file
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:10:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> cfields_ : perfect
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:10:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> iirc we didn't bump qt for 0.15. so deps seem unlikely
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:10:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> we should start doing that now
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:10:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I mean you only run it when something is wrong
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:10:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> yes
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:11:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">Make -resetguisettings dump settings to troubleshooting file in datadir</span>
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:11:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields_:</span> well I'm not completely sure that the issue is 0.15.x specific based on report load it could have been, say, 0.14.2 too ... and just a lot of people are upgrading.
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:11:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> "oh, it's faster, i'll try running a full node again"
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:12:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> what's the OS diversity?
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:12:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but it was *never* reported for 0.14.x
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:12:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> fair point...
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:12:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it would explain more reports, sure
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:12:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> we have a linux report now. so far mostly windows reports.
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:12:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I suspect that's because more people use windows than linux
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:12:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I don't think we've had a mac report. maybe there are just no mac users. :P
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:13:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> ah damn, i was thinking it could be a windows update
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:13:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> did we update qt in between 0.14.2 and 0.15.0?
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:13:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;harrymm&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> not those you mentioned. i did try some other bitcoin python stuff at various times tho
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:13:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> hmm. I can run on osx and plug/unplug monitors like a madman.
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:13:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">harrymm:</span> thanks.
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:13:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields_:</span> it's not a monitor problem
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:13:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> So thats counter evidence to the theory that bch or bu is corrupting it.
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:14:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the monitor problem just disappears the window
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:14:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think this is unrelated
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:14:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> This is definitely unrelated
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:14:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:14:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> is that still the offscreen issue?
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:14:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> There may be two issues fixed with the same thing or two manifestiations of the same issue.
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:14:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;harrymm&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> i got the right symbols down and loaded into gdb, but there's still many symbols i don't have. i was checking if the relevant ones were there but not sure i have the right skills anyway so i will pastebin what i have
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:15:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> it's the #11171 issue
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:15:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gribble&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11171 | RC2 Exits After Initialization · Issue #11171 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:15:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> which is not an offscreen issue although we initially thought it was
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:15:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">again:</span>  GUI: TransactionTablePriv::refreshWallet
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:15:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> was that the same problem?
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:15:57 </span><span class="nka">* BlueMatt</span> <span class="ac">gets the impression there are at least 2 distinct issues here (+ the offscreen one which is not a segfault, right?)</span>
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:16:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I don'tremember that one was fixed by clearing gui settings
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:16:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the offscreen issue is not a segfault, ever
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:16:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> no... not possible IMO
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:16:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 11171 seems totally unrelated to the offscreen issue
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:16:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the refreshWallet crash was intermittent, very hard to reproduce
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:16:34 </span><span class="nka">* BlueMatt</span> <span class="ac">also doesnt believe this exists on 0.14.2...so far 2 reports from ppa folks, and they tend to be a rather well-upgraded bunch</span>
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:16:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> this one is 100% reproducible
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:16:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> unless you clear the settings
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:16:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. I'll track down 11171
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:17:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">harrymm:</span> yea, pastebin what you have would be great
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:17:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that's what we're doing now with harrymm :)
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:17:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> xyzzy099 == harrymm?
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:17:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> offscreen gets the same report from users though:  window doesn't appear, resetting the gui settings fixes it.
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:17:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I have tracked this down and it's no longer present in 0.15
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:17:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> no, different people, same symptoms, possibly same problem
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:17:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> (official builds)
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:18:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It may happen if you self compile with &lt;Qt5.6
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:18:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> (symptoms being crash after splash screen)
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:18:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes the offscreen one has unclear status on the release binaries, jonasschnelli's testing points at it being fixed
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:18:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> which issue is that?
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:18:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ah, offscreen
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:18:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I believe the offscreen issue should be fixed in 0.15
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:19:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> yes
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:19:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> it'd be nice to fix the qt5 issues so that ppa can upgrade to it instead of being stuck on qt4......
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:19:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It's fixed in 0.15.0 (I have tested with Win7,8.1/10)
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:19:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> just wait for unity to die
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:19:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> how does &lt;Qt5.6 come into it?
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:19:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> wasn't the most serious qt5 problem on ubuntu the tray icon thing? no such issue on GNOME
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:20:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I'm not sure if Qt is related. I could not find if the bug was fixed upstream (I think we had a Qt depdendency upgrade from 0.14 to 0.15) or if its fixed in out sources.
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:20:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> heh, I mean there was discussion of killing the tray icon
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:20:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, I believe the tray icon was ~the only blocker
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:20:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> the problem is that we've had users reporting all through the rcs something that sounds like that, and now in releases. So just saying its fixed isn't helpful, since there is clearly something that isn't fixed.
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:20:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anyhow that's yet another different issue
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:20:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> there was some minimize issue that was also there, but I believe it was related...just kill the tray icon and its fixed, I think
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:20:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> jonasschnelli: I think you're talking about different issues
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:20:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> IMO its an upstream bug.
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:20:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;harrymm&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> best backtrace I have: https://pastebin.com/ZEZUhEDW
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:20:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it's almost as if we have a lot of GUI issues and not many people working on the GUI :)
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:21:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> i don't understand
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:21:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> is it fixed, or is it an upstream bug?
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:21:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> both - upstream bug that is fixed
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:21:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> the offscreen issue was present in our official 0.14.x bninaries while it's gone in our 0.15.0 binary
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:21:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> or "is it fixed" or "can't reproduce"?
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:21:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we're not talking about the offscreen issue...
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:21:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's discuss one issue at a time
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:21:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> it is fixed,.. very likely in an upstream fix (could not track down the commit)
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:21:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> this is getting crazy
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:22:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> then why are we getting reports?
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:22:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> what patch fixed it in 0.15?
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:22:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> offscreen bug: could be because people compile with an Qt version below qt5.6?
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:22:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we really need a test for the offscreen issue, right now we have *no* way to evaluate any fix
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:22:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we could merge another PR that claims to fix it
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:22:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but I'm kind of sick of that
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:22:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> wait, i thought we were talking about the crash-at-startup issue?
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:22:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/0.15/src/qt/sendcoinsdialog.cpp#L131 &lt;-- the bug
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:22:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I need to track it down. I just tested 0.14.1 and 0.15.0 on win7,8.1,10 and verfied that it is fixed in 0.15
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:23:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ok, but lets be clear there are multiple bugs here
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:23:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> yay!
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:23:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> sorry,... we slipped to the offscreen issue.
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:23:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> okay, ignore me
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:23:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> the offscreen issue, which jonasschnelli believes to be fixed
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:23:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> what does verified that it's fixed in 0.15 mean?  Does that just mean you were unable to reproduce it at all?
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:23:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> also the settings issue, which is L131 as above based on harrymm's backtrace
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:23:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yes, that means it
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:23:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I set the window position by RegEdit to 3000,3000, 0.14 has the issue, 0.15 doens't
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:24:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> I don't see how there's a bug there
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:24:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> thanks for doing a sane, reproducible test :)
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:25:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 11171 is far more important
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:25:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> okay, but if the issue users are hitting is that the use positions the window in the bottom left of the screen (below task bar) then they'd still be hitting it... since the reproduction was synthetic.
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:25:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I agree
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:25:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> crash bugs are more important, and this happens for a lot more users
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:25:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I know that at least one of the users I helped during the RCs wasn't crashing (Because they had to kill bitcoin-qt in their task manager)
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:25:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> oops, I'm late
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:25:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I can investigate again and report
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:25:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yay 0.15!
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:26:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> sure, but there's only so much we can do
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:26:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> we could stop saving the position.
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:26:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, ideally we should test all 8 areas outside the screen, something for an automated test
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:26:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> or just nuke the remember-position functionality
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:27:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> my observation is that Qt handles offscreen situation pretty well... if a certain area of the window is offscreen, it re-centers.
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:27:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the longer this remains an issue the more I'm tempted to the latter
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:27:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> does -resetguisettings change anything but the remembered window coordinates?
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:27:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> QT5 but perhaps not QT4? (which, for example, the ppa uses, I believe)
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:27:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes, it clears all settings set through the gui optioins dialog
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:27:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It may kill your dbcache / proxy settings
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:27:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> oh!
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:27:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Oh. PPA / QT4
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:28:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> Oh, I think I found harrymm's bug
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:28:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. The issue is very likely present there...
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:28:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> as well as all other things the GUI remembers (there might be something in the send dialog with fee, I vaguely remember)
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:28:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you missed earlier discussion, based on debuglog traffic achow has suggested its actually the proxy that is implicated in the crash.,
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:28:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I don't see a reason to do the PPA with Qt4?
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:28:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> yea, there's only one button in that group
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:28:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I pointed out that 0.15 did change proxy handling (name lookup) but a cause of a crash isn't obvious there.
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:28:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> ah
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:28:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> I mean how different settings for nCustomFeeRadio cause a segfault
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:28:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Maybe we just add a failsafe: if offscreen then re-center... (but sounds simpler then it is)
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:28:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> the user in here with the crash on linux knows the function where the segfault happens for him (inside a qt button setting function)
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:29:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> interesting, so it might be the custom fee setting?
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:29:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> yes
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:29:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> I forgot about that one completely as it's not in the options dialog
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:29:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it appears to be a what-button-had-you-clicked-on-in-14.2 issue
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:29:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:29:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> I set nCustomFeeRadio=1 and that causes a segfault
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:29:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> oh we also changed the options for fees at some point in recent memory, could people have settings that made sense in 0.14 but not now?
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:29:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> ouch
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:29:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> nice catch
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:29:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> sounds like it.
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:29:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> we deleted a button
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:30:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> could it happend by https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/10769?
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:30:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> there is only one button in that group
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:30:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> consistent with the segfault location that harrymm reported too
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:30:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> so it obviously segfaults
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:30:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> well that was a productive first half of the meeting
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:31:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so nCustomFeeRadio should be removed completely? or are there other settitngs?
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:31:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;harrymm&gt;</span> good work :)
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:31:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> 0.15.1 next week? :P
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:31:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> debugging an issue during the meeting is kinda cool
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:31:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> heh...
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:32:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> bughunting-by-committee
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:32:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;dgenr8&gt;</span> my money was on sinister alt clients
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:32:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> oh had nothing to do with sinister, just incompatible.
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:32:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> where everyone forgets it's really achow101 who found it
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:32:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> sinister alt clients could have more custom fee settings, we should be robust against corrupt configuration in any case :)
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:32:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> thats the advantages of committess, one guy does all the work and everyone gets the credit!
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:33:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> lol
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:33:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> haha good old USSR-style
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:33:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> I found a way to reliably reproduce it
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:33:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> committees*
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:33:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> which is the ncustomefeeradio thing, but I'm not sure what to do going forward
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:33:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> i'm pretty sure that's the root cause
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:33:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so how do we solve it?
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:33:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> do we have to figure that out now?
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:34:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> if there are no other topics, why not, i guess
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:34:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> achow101 will figure it out. our work here is done.
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:34:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no, not really, I just wonder what is the use of a radio button with one option
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:34:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'll can tackle the groupCustomFee segfault today
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:34:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anyhow, any other topics?
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:34:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> so you have the freedom to choose the Correct option, of course.
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:34:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> any color car as long as it is black
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:35:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> lol!
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:35:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> time to ford ahead.
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:35:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> ok, fix is easy, I'll get it fixed right after meeting
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:35:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> great!
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:35:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anything to discuss for 0.15.1?
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:35:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/6ba2214e0fe57ecb9271819d2422ec44a9020a8d fixes it for now
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:35:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> if there's nothing else; i have some open questions about segwit-by-default support in 0.15.1
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:35:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">segwit-by-default support in 0.15.1</span>
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:35:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> oh, wait, hmm
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:36:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> my idea was to have a cmdline option to select a default address style, which could be p2pkh, p2sh-p2wpkh, or p2wpkh
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:36:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> or jonasschnelli can do it
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:36:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (where the middle one is default)
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:36:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and have an optional argument to getnewaddress to override it
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:36:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> seems reasonable?
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:36:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> open question: separate option for change?
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:37:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> imo yes
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:37:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> imo yes
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:37:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:37:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> open question: do we want to return both p2wpkh and p2sh-p2wpkh (for now), as there is an efficiency gain when you want to give both to a peer
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:37:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">downside:</span> may not want we want to support longer term with split chains
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:37:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> no, I think that will confuse people
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:37:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">upside:</span> more efficient to rescan
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:37:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> I'd say no
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:37:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> may confuse
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:38:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> users who care will crank the option surely
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:38:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> we can't do that by default, interface breaking change.  If you want to call getnewaddress with style=gangnam and it returns both, that would be fine.
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:38:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> style=gangnam &lt;-- lol
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:38:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yep, i tested, running 0.14, setting the at least button, 0.15 crashes
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:39:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but style=gangnam would be pre-deprecated, and scheduled for removal in a future version
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:39:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> oops was backlogged
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:39:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> good to know that
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:39:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> hahahahaa
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:39:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> morcos also tested the 6ba2...fix from above, which fixed it, though the real fix isnt something that stupidly hacky
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:40:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, end of my topic
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:40:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> let's just let users decide with a 1-option combo-box :p
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:40:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I'd say we could make the GUI show both too, except the URI/qr code can't really do that.
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:40:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> er, radio
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:40:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields_:</span> unary encoding, i like it
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:40:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> wait, i'm confused
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:40:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> are you serious about giving both addresses
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:40:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> no, why would we do that
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:40:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> lets not do that
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:40:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> you could also just call getnewaddress twice
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:40:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> who cares
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:41:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> as an option. The reason is so you can say "here is the bech32 one if you can pay to it, otherwise use X"
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:41:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> you should have a way of selecting which type of address you want for change or for getnewaddress
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:41:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> then give them 2 different keys
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:41:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> that's how it'll work in 0.16
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:41:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> lets not try to be cheap and save a couple of keys and start teaching people that you can use one or the other
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:41:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> my wallet.dat barely fits on a 3.5" floppy disk anymore...
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:42:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields_&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> +1
<a name="l-291"></a><span class="tm">19:42:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> will there be an argument to getnewaddress to override?
<a name="l-292"></a><span class="tm">19:42:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> id hope so
<a name="l-293"></a><span class="tm">19:42:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i agree that's a downside, but its more important to set the precedent that these thigns are NOT interoperable
<a name="l-294"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> i hope so, yes
<a name="l-295"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-296"></a><span class="tm">19:42:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> ok, then that's fine
<a name="l-297"></a><span class="tm">19:42:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> okay... when I talked to sipa about it my objection was that we couldn't support it in the future. his counter was that we don't have to offer it in the future.
<a name="l-298"></a><span class="tm">19:42:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> i prefer
<a name="l-299"></a><span class="tm">19:42:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> somehow I doubt bdb is useable on floppy-latency disks anyway :p
<a name="l-300"></a><span class="tm">19:42:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> yes, there would be an option, setting would just set the default.
<a name="l-301"></a><span class="tm">19:43:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> then I see no reason to return both
<a name="l-302"></a><span class="tm">19:43:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes,we need to make it very clear they're not interoperable, that you can't, in general just convert the one to the othe and have it work
<a name="l-303"></a><span class="tm">19:43:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> then require two getnewaddress calls
<a name="l-304"></a><span class="tm">19:43:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> sounds good, you need to call getnewaddress twice
<a name="l-305"></a><span class="tm">19:43:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-306"></a><span class="tm">19:43:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-307"></a><span class="tm">19:43:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> no gangnam
<a name="l-308"></a><span class="tm">19:44:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> also in the scheme of things, each 0.15.1 wallet is wasting 2000 + N * (# getnewaddress calls) + (# changes) keys.... where N is 2 if you do what I want (only in the cases where you give out both) or 1 if you do what you want
<a name="l-309"></a><span class="tm">19:44:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> it makes no difference relatively speaking for almost all users
<a name="l-310"></a><span class="tm">19:45:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ack on removing remember position functionality until we can test it automatically
<a name="l-311"></a><span class="tm">19:45:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> jtimon has the gribble disease.
<a name="l-312"></a><span class="tm">19:45:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> that'd make sense, I guess
<a name="l-313"></a><span class="tm">19:46:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (20 minutes behind. :) )
<a name="l-314"></a><span class="tm">19:46:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> seems the segwit-by-default topic is conclded, anything else?
<a name="l-315"></a><span class="tm">19:47:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I think we need to announce a workaround for this issue we all collectively figured out through our joint effort where no one person did all the work during the meeting.
<a name="l-316"></a><span class="tm">19:47:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> haha yes gribble's behavior seemed very curious and random, before I realized it was just backlogged (or rather, github was?)
<a name="l-317"></a><span class="tm">19:47:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> yes, do we have a mechanism for release errata?
<a name="l-318"></a><span class="tm">19:47:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> or make a 0.15.0.1
<a name="l-319"></a><span class="tm">19:48:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> given the ppa is still not up (cause arm qt...) I'll probably ship that with the hacky workaround patch posted above
<a name="l-320"></a><span class="tm">19:48:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> unless there are objections
<a name="l-321"></a><span class="tm">19:48:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> did you manage to debug the ARM qt issue? I'm curious
<a name="l-322"></a><span class="tm">19:48:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no objections, if you can patch it in your distro, do so
<a name="l-323"></a><span class="tm">19:48:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it's zero risk...
<a name="l-324"></a><span class="tm">19:48:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> there appear to now be at least two separate issues, a miscompile, and I now have a stacktrace for another test_bitcoin-qt fail that I'm looking at now
<a name="l-325"></a><span class="tm">19:48:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> I believe (not tested yet) that you can just remove L131 entirely
<a name="l-326"></a><span class="tm">19:48:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> let's fix the things at least in the 0.15 branch
<a name="l-327"></a><span class="tm">19:49:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I won't ack 0.15.0.1 because I do none of the required work for it but it might be nice.
<a name="l-328"></a><span class="tm">19:49:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> then depending on progress we can see whether it goes in 0.15.1, or if a 0.15.0.1 may be needed (at release manager's discretion...)
<a name="l-329"></a><span class="tm">19:49:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> possibly, but BlueMatt's fix is obviosuly correct, a better fix is to just remove the setting completely
<a name="l-330"></a><span class="tm">19:49:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> well the commit linked above works, so whatever
<a name="l-331"></a><span class="tm">19:49:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> and the single-choice radio button
<a name="l-332"></a><span class="tm">19:49:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> what sipa said
<a name="l-333"></a><span class="tm">19:49:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but for a quick hack that change is good
<a name="l-334"></a><span class="tm">19:49:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in master can we please fix properly, remove the whole group
<a name="l-335"></a><span class="tm">19:49:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-336"></a><span class="tm">19:50:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-337"></a><span class="tm">19:50:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-338"></a><span class="tm">19:50:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-339"></a><span class="tm">19:50:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> someone will need to contemplate how to prevent this kind of issue in the future.
<a name="l-340"></a><span class="tm">19:50:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well yes let's fix it on the branch then decide whether to do 0.15.0.1
<a name="l-341"></a><span class="tm">19:51:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> better testing of the gui is the only answer
<a name="l-342"></a><span class="tm">19:51:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> fuzz the qsettings options :)
<a name="l-343"></a><span class="tm">19:51:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> remove all features until qt is a single button
<a name="l-344"></a><span class="tm">19:51:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Better GUI tests... but more important, "upgrade tests"
<a name="l-345"></a><span class="tm">19:51:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> "moon"
<a name="l-346"></a><span class="tm">19:51:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> hah
<a name="l-347"></a><span class="tm">19:51:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Non of our test do cover upgrade of wallets, etc.
<a name="l-348"></a><span class="tm">19:51:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (responding to instagibbs)
<a name="l-349"></a><span class="tm">19:52:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jonasschnelli, hmm good point
<a name="l-350"></a><span class="tm">19:52:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Upgrade tests would probably require static data files from older versions....
<a name="l-351"></a><span class="tm">19:52:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well at least the reduced one radio buttons group to one button, that's a start...
<a name="l-352"></a><span class="tm">19:52:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> was fuzz qsettings a joke?   i did that with the fee estimation changes manually, i think thats a good idea
<a name="l-353"></a><span class="tm">19:52:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> s/the/we/
<a name="l-354"></a><span class="tm">19:52:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> not really
<a name="l-355"></a><span class="tm">19:52:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no, it's not a joke, it'd help with robustness against corrupt configs a lot
<a name="l-356"></a><span class="tm">19:53:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok, the smiley threw me
<a name="l-357"></a><span class="tm">19:53:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but as we're not even fuzzing bitcoin.conf settings yet
<a name="l-358"></a><span class="tm">19:53:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> but it would mean a lot more changes since weird shit in qsettings totally screws up qt
<a name="l-359"></a><span class="tm">19:53:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ha ha, fuzzing bitcoin.conf DEFINITELY breaks things
<a name="l-360"></a><span class="tm">19:53:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> we would need better bad-setting rejection
<a name="l-361"></a><span class="tm">19:53:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> gui testing is always at least 3 times as much work
<a name="l-362"></a><span class="tm">19:53:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yeah, both formats seems like un ugly optimization. Doesn't look like it's worth it
<a name="l-363"></a><span class="tm">19:54:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I think he's still 20min behind.
<a name="l-364"></a><span class="tm">19:54:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Not sure if fuzzing qt-settings (QSettings) make sense. It's not a file edited by users
<a name="l-365"></a><span class="tm">19:54:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> is jtimon working on-site on the blockstream Mars project
<a name="l-366"></a><span class="tm">19:54:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> is stuck on moon
<a name="l-367"></a><span class="tm">19:54:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> well, I arrived 30 mins late
<a name="l-368"></a><span class="tm">19:54:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Fuzzing peers.dat or similar would also make little sense I guess
<a name="l-369"></a><span class="tm">19:54:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> but it can get corrupt, like anything
<a name="l-370"></a><span class="tm">19:54:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> though I agree there's a limit
<a name="l-371"></a><span class="tm">19:54:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> that would at least test it handles corrupted files right
<a name="l-372"></a><span class="tm">19:55:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> recently ran into a case where we werent
<a name="l-373"></a><span class="tm">19:55:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Corrupt files should be handled by Qt IMO
<a name="l-374"></a><span class="tm">19:55:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> usually with bitcoin.conf we don't change the meaning of the options (cough cough sipa)
<a name="l-375"></a><span class="tm">19:55:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The file itself is hidden on our application layer
<a name="l-376"></a><span class="tm">19:55:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We just deal with QSettings
<a name="l-377"></a><span class="tm">19:55:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> we could be better about making sure we rename options in QT if we are goign to change their meaning
<a name="l-378"></a><span class="tm">19:55:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-379"></a><span class="tm">19:56:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> much, much better to lose the setting than crash
<a name="l-380"></a><span class="tm">19:56:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes!
<a name="l-381"></a><span class="tm">19:56:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> unless it's soomething like the proxy
<a name="l-382"></a><span class="tm">19:56:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but a nicety like remembering the fee setting? nah
<a name="l-383"></a><span class="tm">19:56:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> 0.15.0.1 ? why not 15.0.1 directly and we stop writing the 0. prefix now? /me hides
<a name="l-384"></a><span class="tm">19:56:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I don't understand why the crash does not happen on OSX (could only reproduce on Linux)
<a name="l-385"></a><span class="tm">19:57:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> likely the implementation of radio button group is different there
<a name="l-386"></a><span class="tm">19:57:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> making it return e.g. a dummy object instead of corruption or null when reading out of range
<a name="l-387"></a><span class="tm">19:57:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> macosx users just got lucky
<a name="l-388"></a><span class="tm">19:58:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> we have occasionally had x.x.x.1 released for bugfixes that affect just some platforms
<a name="l-389"></a><span class="tm">19:58:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> *releases
<a name="l-390"></a><span class="tm">19:58:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> 2 minutes
<a name="l-391"></a><span class="tm">19:58:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> one could argue they were silently forced to lose their at least setting which made them erroneously pay the wrong fees
<a name="l-392"></a><span class="tm">19:58:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes, I wouldn't like to burn 0.15.1 on this mainly
<a name="l-393"></a><span class="tm">19:58:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> agreed
<a name="l-394"></a><span class="tm">19:58:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> finally catched up...to late to suggest a topic, but perhaps we can talk about it after the meeting
<a name="l-395"></a><span class="tm">19:59:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> is about an index for scriptPubKeys
<a name="l-396"></a><span class="tm">19:59:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, we're done for today
<a name="l-397"></a><span class="tm">19:59:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
