====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:40 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-11-05-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* Sigcache performance  (wumpus, 19:03:23)

* softfork releases  (wumpus, 19:18:27)

* libsecp256k1 now  (wumpus, 19:23:20)

* transaction priority  (wumpus, 19:24:45)
  * ACTION: check #6357 is efficient enough and safe  (wumpus, 19:25:41)

* sigops flooding attack  (wumpus, 19:28:36)

* chain limits  (wumpus, 19:37:52)
  * ACTION: merge #6771  (wumpus, 19:44:53)

* softfork releases / 0.11.2+0.10.4  (wumpus, 19:45:46)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6825  (Luke-Jr,
    19:47:59)
  * ACTION: review #6825 ASAP  (wumpus, 19:50:51)

* mempools and mining  (wumpus, 19:53:33)
  * ACTION: topic for next week: "Should we be working on getting the
    opt-in RBF for 0.12?"  (wumpus, 19:55:34)



Meeting ended at 20:01:29 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* morcos (88)
* gmaxwell (70)
* wumpus (68)
* sipa (64)
* jgarzik (29)
* Luke-Jr (18)
* phantomcircuit (12)
* sdaftuar (8)
* btcdrak (7)
* jouke (2)
* jtimon (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* mcelrath (1)
* jonasschnelli (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4