====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:00 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-10-15-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* mempool limiting  (wumpus, 19:02:34)
  * ACTION: review #6722  (wumpus, 19:02:52)

* sdaftuar's sendheaders BIP  (wumpus, 19:10:12)

* versionbits  (wumpus, 19:22:49)
  * ACTION: review versionbits implementation  (wumpus, 19:23:57)

* dev/discuss list policy followup  (wumpus, 19:25:51)
  * ACTION: rusty and jgarzik should discuss this, who are not here
    (wumpus, 19:36:27)

* CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY - We need more usecases to motivate the change
  (wumpus, 19:37:07)
  * ACTION: review https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6566
    median-past locktime  (wumpus, 19:55:00)



Meeting ended at 19:58:14 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (52)
* sipa (50)
* btcdrak (42)
* gmaxwell (31)
* morcos (31)
* maaku (24)
* CodeShark (23)
* BlueMatt (21)
* sdaftuar (17)
* warren (15)
* GreenIsMyPepper (6)
* davec (5)
* cfields (3)
* jonasschnelli (2)
* lightningbot (2)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4