====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:58 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-12-17-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* RBF handling in wallets  (wumpus, 19:03:19)
  * ACTION: look at #7062 (fixes prioritisetransaction for RBF and
    mempool limiting) for 0.12  (wumpus, 19:06:32)
  * ACTION: look at #7132 (command line flag to opt into rbf on all
    outgoing txs)  (wumpus, 19:28:21)

* c++11 plans for 0.13  (wumpus, 19:29:36)
  * ACTION: switch some builds to c++11?  (sipa, 19:56:44)



Meeting ended at 20:00:41 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (75)
* cfields (40)
* sipa (39)
* jonasschnelli (38)
* petertodd (35)
* Luke-Jr (32)
* nwilcox (19)
* raa (6)
* zookolaptop (4)
* sdaftuar (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* harding (1)
* jgarzik (1)
* btcdrak (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4