<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:24:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:24:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Nov 26 19:24:40 2015 UTC.  The chair is btcdrak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:24:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:24:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">CLTV activation</span>
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:25:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> the floor is yours
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:25:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> right, so it's plausible that we'll have CLTV activate within just a few weeks, as everyone but a few big players has adopted it
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:26:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> we've got about 20% of nodes running CLTV-supporting bitcoin core versions... we should do another redit/twitter/etc. push reminding people that they should upgrade to v0.11.2 / v0.10.4
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:26:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Yes, I was planning to do something today but got sidetracked and forgot. Best to do on Monday/Tuesday for best coverage.
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:26:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> sounds like a plan
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:27:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> it will be fun doing an mSIGNA release that supports CLTV :)
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:27:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> well, negative effect of not upgrading for non-miners is just degraded validation, right?
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:28:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> yes, reduced to SPV
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:28:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> k
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:28:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> we do not kick peers for sending us a now-invalid nVersion=3 blocks, so the network won't split or anything
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:28:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">Post reminder about CLTV deployment next week on social media</span>
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:29:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> is this topic concluded?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:29:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> I think so
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:30:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> ok well I have one :)
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:30:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> shoot
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:30:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">BIP68/BIP112 implementation</span>
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:31:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> in retrospect we should have kept the nSequence semantics but still called the opcode OP_RCHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY and use the proper semantics for that ;)
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:31:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> So reporting from last week, the BIP68 and BIP112 texts have been updated to match the implementations
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:31:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> I've done a bit of work on CSV demo's, but that's getting pushed behind scaling bitcoin conf prep: https://github.com/petertodd/csv-demos
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:31:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> yeah, new texts look better
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:31:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I would like to note the implementations are as agreed back in October. The BIP texts have has some peer review and received ACKs.
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:32:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> never too late to rename..
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:32:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">BIP68 text https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/245</span>
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:32:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">BIP112 text https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/248</span>
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:32:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> I vote we let btcdrak pick a new bikeshed color^H^H^H new name
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:32:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> lol
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:33:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Regarding the implementations PRs #6312 (BIP68) and #6564 (CSV opcode BIP112), these are up to date and ready. They have also received a number of ACKs
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:33:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I posted to the list about renaming OP_CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:33:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> I'm definitely holding off an ACK until I've seen some worked out demos of CSV functionality
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:33:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#link </span><span class="cmdline">http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-November/011801.html</span>
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:34:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> yeah, the only thing that is holding me back from ACKing is that I haven't actually tried constructing CSV transactions
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:35:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I believe these PRs should be merged soon. For the avoidance of doubt, these are mempool-only implementations, with no softfork deployment code. That should be added later when we are ready to deploy
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:35:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> it's worth noting that if it were easier to add fields to transactions, this whole review process would be much easier
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:35:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> working on it!
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:35:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> :)
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:35:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> segwit might fix that, PT
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:36:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> hah, I was thinking just that
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:36:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes, I was thinking about segwit when I said that :)
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:36:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> in the end it might turn out that we don't even need the nSequence field ;)
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:36:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> though if I understood your code, you haven't yet made tx hashing be oer a tree yet
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:36:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> So we can never have enough review, I can never say the PRs are ready, but, since there has been a lot of ACKs and we're not merging a consensus change, I really want to ask for #6312 and #6564 to get merged
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:36:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> i changed that
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:37:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> though it's still broken
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:37:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> So that's my monologue done.
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:37:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> so, I'd suggest you write out in the pull-req what exactly is your plan for handling a change to the rules after it's merged - in a dev branch I don't think that's a big deal, but if we release a mempool-only version that can be ugly
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:38:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> merging after v0.12.0 is forked off would be safest
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:38:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> IIRC that's supposed to happen in about a week or so
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:39:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> OK. I'm pretty confident we're not changing the rules, BIP68 has been in the bike-shed long enough and pretty much everyone's requests have been incorporated.
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:39:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> we should talk at scaling bitcoin about this; I've done a lot of thinking re: this stuff for my proofchains work
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:39:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> sure
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:39:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I actually am presenting on extensibility using segwit
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:39:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I would be happy with it being merged right after 0.12 is branched off. But it really needs to get merged... I cant insist enough
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:39:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> although it is not in the program yett
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:39:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> but I asked for the bikeshed to be painted the color of an eldritch horror!
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:40:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> cool!
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:40:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> send me what you have; may be relevant to my presentation
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:40:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I certainly do want to change the name of the opcode, but that's an easy change
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:41:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> sipa: gmaxwell: coments/thoughts?
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:41:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> i disagree with the need to be merged... at this point we have to wait anyway
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:41:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">PT:</span> sure - as soon as I have something ;)
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:41:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> not saying that it shouldn't, and i understand that waiting and rebasing is annoying
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:41:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> next rebase is on me :)
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:41:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> with all due respect it's almost 6 months. it's getting painful.
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:42:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> hey, CLTV took a year, two if you count from the initial implementation
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:42:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> i completely understand that, but that is not a reason... i have a feeling people only recently started actually looking into it seriously
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> agreed :(
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:43:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> anyway the remarkable speed that CLTV is being adopted makes me worry less about getting CSV ready in time for things that might use it
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:43:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> fair enough. Can the BIP texts get merged. They are an accurate representation of the current implementations and it's already confused a couple of people who read the version in master not realising it was an old version.
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:43:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> +1 on merging BIP texts
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:43:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> no reason why the bip texts can't be merged
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:43:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> BIP changes should be merged as soon as the author(s) ACK them
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:44:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> even if there are minor amendments to make to the BIP texts it's a heck of a lot better than the current status
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:44:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> remind me when I get home tonight if that's the case
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:44:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> I am the author of BIP112
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:44:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> oh, all authors? we should make that clear in the instructions
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:44:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> AFAIK just one
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:44:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> and really maaku has handed over the proposals to me so it is not reasonable to expect him to ACK BIP68
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:44:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> but clarifying it would be nice
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:45:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> can you rebase your BIP112 PR?
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:45:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> to what, they all show as mergeable
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:46:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I guess it's mergeable - but we merged in something recently
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:46:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> you know, a better procedure for draft BIP's might be to have a placeholder link in bitcoin/bips pointing to the authors' presonal repo...
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:46:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">Merge BIPs PRs #245 and #248</span>
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:47:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> rebasing for no reason whatsoever is just annoying :/
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:47:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> ok, I see there are no conflicts
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:47:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> specifically, I changed a couple things in the Retroactive Invalidation section that got merged but it does not conflict with your PR
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:48:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> in your view, what remains for the implementations to get merged?
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:49:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">### </span><span class="cmdline">10 minutes left. are there any other topic suggestions?</span>
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:50:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> rbf
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:50:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> ok then let's end this topic
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:50:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">RBF</span>
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:50:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> please go ahead
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:51:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> so, I've been running RBF nodes with the mempool limiter turned way down to stress test... and no issues reported
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:51:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> anyone have a topic that pays a higher fee? :)
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:51:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> lol
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:51:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> this fee is too low, I'm leaving early!
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:51:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> :P
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:51:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> here's a (non)-alcoholic beverage of your choice
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:52:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> is the current PR easy to merge FSS and full-unconditional on top of as options?
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:52:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> sure is, and I invite people to do exacty that
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:53:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> sorry, haven't reviewed it... we have a bit of more urgent changes to make still
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:53:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I haven't had a chance to review your stuff yet, petertodd, but strongly support the effort ;)
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:53:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> cool, reviews so this can get into v0.12.0 much appreciated...
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:54:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> RBF is another PR which seems to have a ton of support and ACKs iirc.
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:54:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> note, concept acks and utacks, not much full acks
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:54:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> totally agree on bip68, if it's going to survive longer as unmerged we should condider separate releases ala eternal petertodd's RBF instead of just an eternal PR
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:54:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> rbf works as a separate release, bip68 doesn't
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:55:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> it would be nice if bitcoin.org and similar sites were designed to convey multiple Core-based branches/releases
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:55:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> iirc from the previous meetings RBF is scheduled for 0.12 anyhow.
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:55:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> any action points petertodd?
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:55:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">### </span><span class="cmdline">5 minutes remaining</span>
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:55:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> it could be implemented, I'm just pointing out how unfortunate would be to require that unnecesary additional work
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:55:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">another one or two ACKS on opt-in RBF</span>
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:56:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> what's the PR link again?
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:56:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:56:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> I always celebrated all RBF releases, and at the same time lament them
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:56:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">test and ACK RBF https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871</span>
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:57:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> separate RBF releases do help make the point that the Bitcoin Core devs do not have absolute control of Bitcoin
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:58:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> ^ moving away from a single master branch would make that point better
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:58:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> we did that already, github.com/bitcoin and github.com/bitcoinxt :)
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:58:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> but that will take some changes to be practical long-term
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:58:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> the latter isn't Bitcoin so not really
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:58:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> LJR is a better example there, but suffers from the rebase-abuse issue ;P
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:59:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> yeah, it's a pity that had to happen with a protocol change too, confuses the issue
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:59:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> inb4 everyone shills their own fork btcdrak addrindex fork for example...
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:59:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> absolutely, please help me document it as an example in bip99, even if it's just as an example of software fork vs consensus fork
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">20:00:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> time is up.
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">20:00:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> ttyl, going to join family
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">20:00:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> have fun!
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">20:00:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
