====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:42 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-11-12-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* What to do about priority for 0.12?  (besides cry)  (wumpus, 19:02:03)
  * ACTION: please review #6134 (Improve usage of fee estimation code)
    (wumpus, 19:10:53)

* RBF opt-in  (wumpus, 19:29:12)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871  (btcdrak,
    19:29:36)
  * ACTION: review and merge #6871 (nSequence-based Full-RBF opt-in)
    (wumpus, 19:32:24)
  * ACTION: - everybody take opt-in RBF from concept ACK to [ut] ACK
    (jgarzik, 19:34:20)

* versionbits  (wumpus, 19:37:46)
  * LINK: http://bitcoin.sipa.be/ver-2k.png  (gmaxwell, 19:41:45)

* chian limits  (wumpus, 19:44:16)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6771  (btcdrak,
    19:51:21)



Meeting ended at 19:56:42 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* BlueMatt (56)
* petertodd (53)
* morcos (46)
* jgarzik (42)
* gmaxwell (35)
* wumpus (32)
* Luke-Jr (28)
* jtimon (25)
* btcdrak (25)
* phantomcircuit (24)
* sipa (23)
* CodeShark (20)
* sdaftuar (8)
* jg_taxi (6)
* gavinandresen (5)
* cfields (5)
* lightningbot (2)
* bsm1175321 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4