<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot`&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Jan  7 19:00:19 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot`&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> oh!
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> any topics?
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:01:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">topic:</span> anything still needs to be merged before 0.12.0rc1?
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:01:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> the wallet stuff
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:01:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yeah besides what already has 0.12 milestone
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:01:26 </span><span class="nka">* sipa</span> <span class="ac">at the real world crypto conference; right in thr middle of the bitcoin session</span>
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> oh, probably not be a busy meeting then
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> &gt;_&lt;
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:02:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 0.12.0rc needs some more infos in the release notes
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:02:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7151 for 0.12.0 &lt;.&lt;
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:02:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> you didn't add #7312 to 0.12 milestone.  i guess there is disagreement
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:02:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7149 is a bugfix for 0.12.0 also
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:02:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but i feel pretty strongly that releasing 0.12 as is, is pretty bad
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:03:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> if i work out a quick fix for #7098, ok for 0.12 ?
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:03:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> jonas, I have a pull open for the release notes.
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:03:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Maybe someone can do the rbf part
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:03:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> yes. But some things are missing.
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:03:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> and morcos the txconfirmtarget part?
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:03:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> well I do intend to release rc1 tomorrow, so this was kind of a last minute call
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:03:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">missed:</span> wallet+prune, setban/banlist
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:04:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *misses
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:04:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:04:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 7312 is nice,.. but not urgent for 0.12 IMO.
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:04:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">look at #7151 #7149 #7312 for 0.12</span>
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:05:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i think 7312 is a bugfix?  not being able to spend coins after mempool eviction seems like a bad regression
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:05:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> 7312 is a feature, too late for 0.12.0 I'd think
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:05:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> (i still need to review it)
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:05:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> it has always been true that transactions with too little fee get stuck
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:05:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if it adds new strings or new RPC functionality that's really hard to put under the bugfix umbrella
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:05:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> â€¦ until they gain sufficient priority, at least
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:05:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> previously those tx's could eventually get mined though
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:06:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> which may not work anymore in 0.12
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:06:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> they can still eventually get mined
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:06:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> but this is only rc1, it's quite certain we'll have a rc2, so still worth working on
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:06:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> just your local node will fail to broadcast them, which I agree is a bug..
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:06:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> the situation for 0.12 will be significantly worse with respect to stuck txs than prior releases
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:06:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ok, will do
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:07:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in prior releases, txs were eventually mined because the network didn't forget them
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:07:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> abandontransaction is IMO not a solution to that though
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:07:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> it does not guarantee the transaction won't get mined
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:07:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> or if they were not in your mempool for some other reason, like you never broadcast them, then they didn't tie up inputs (this is a NEW change)
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:07:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> do we currently rebroadcast a txn that is not accepted to our mempool?
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:07:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> but due to the smartfee (+GUI) changes stuck tx should happen really rare? not?
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:07:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> which means people will easily be tricked into double-sends
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:07:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I agree it's worse, but I' not sure what to do about that on such short notice
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:07:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> far worse than stuck
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:08:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I don't think so, but that would be a quick hack that would work I think
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:08:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> also in 0.11, you could probably trick your node to start up with a high relay fee so the tx wouldn't be in yhour mempool any more if it was just taking a long time to mine, and then respend it
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:08:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think that's a bad position to be in
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:08:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> the only solution discussed for 0.12, is -zapwallettxes which sounds crazy to me
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:08:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> as it relies on the rest of the world using a policy you're not following yourself
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:08:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree with morcos
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:08:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> how about adding local priority to wallet transactions so they never get pruned?
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:09:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, -zapwallettxes is crazy
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:09:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> privacy leak
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:09:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> yes, open fingerprintig attacks
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:09:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so, you want to postpone rc1 then?
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:09:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> any solution is a privacy leak?
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:09:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> abandontransaction is not a privacy leak
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> call mempool p2p message and compare
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:09:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> abandontransaction is *worse* than a privacy leak..
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:09:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> mempool p2p message is a privacy leak :(
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:09:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> a GUI way to do "respend with higher fee" is even better
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:09:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> i think jonasschnelli is right that there will not be too many txs that are not accepted to the mempool in the first place, but more txs that are evicted.
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:10:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:10:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> IMO the rare stuck transactions are still rare enough to not be a blocker for 0.12.0
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:11:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think a GUI fix that would re-broadcast the tx would be trivial... but respend with height fees might included some UX changes.
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:11:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes there are a lot of options to improve this that will have to wait for 0.13
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:11:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that's much nicer, but not realistic for 0.12, we need something that can be written ,tested and reviwed on short notice. abandontransaction could be such if everyone focuses on it I guess.
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:11:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> we can add a respend option in 0.12.1 or something
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:11:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:11:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but #7312 as is should be reviewable and mergeable quickly
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:11:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> but it creates worse problems
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:11:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> its a manual operation
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:11:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> if you don't use it, it doesn't create any problems
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:12:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> â€¦
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:12:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> but won't help the people that have stuck tx... they are mostly GUI users i guess.
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:12:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> right
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:12:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> if you want to put a big fat "WARNING: this may cause non opt-in double spends!" thats fine by me
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:12:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> we intentionally make dumping private keys hard, and people STILL do it.
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:12:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> that's not the problem
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:12:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> but when they are asking on #bitcoin, we can tell them to type something into their debug console to clear their tx
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:12:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well the GUI could also add a "abandon transaction" in the tx dropdown
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:13:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> they will abandon a payment to Fred, then resend it to Fred with a higher fee and the wallet will use different inputs
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:13:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i just tried to rush out the bare bones functionality
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:13:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> Fred will bribe a miner to mine both
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:13:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> not sure that's a good idea but heh...
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:13:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes. almost as quick as tell them to use -zapwallettxes... but i agree, thats worse.
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:13:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and that will add strings so definitely not for 0.12.0
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:13:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> it is really annoyingly difficult to deal with stuck txs without this
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:13:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> and Fred now has 2x the intended payment
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:13:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> it can only be used on not-in-mempool transactions i think
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:13:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> not-in-YOUR-mempool does not mean someone else does not have it
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:13:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> if it was NEVER broadcast, it wouldn't have been completed in the first place
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:14:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> if could be never broadcast due to fee estimation error, or due to have broadcast off
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:14:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> making it possible for Fred to receive 2x payment is far worse than stuck transactions; and I suspect will become far more common than the rare stuck txs would have been
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:15:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> the former case, will prevent the tx from ever being completed in the wallet
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:15:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Fred can just as easily tell people to send the tx twice and say that the old one is stuck now, what difference is there
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:15:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> no it wont
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:15:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> the difference is Fred has a much more convincing case if the user is told to abandon the old one
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:15:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> it should!
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:15:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok... let's discuss this outside the meeting, I think it's clear what pulls still need to be looked at...  any other topics?
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:15:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> pretty sure it has in the past
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:15:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> k
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:16:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Should't time be involved in abandoning txes? A min delay?
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:16:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> sounds like overdesign to me
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:16:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> hmm..
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:16:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> next topic: BIPs not in bitcoin/bips need to be told to me
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:16:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> We can hide the rpc and/or make a more stern warning
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:16:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> this is meant to be a quick, advanced fix for people messing up transactions
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:16:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but not having the functionality is just risking a problem imo
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:16:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> we agreed to put this in back in november
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:16:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">Luke-jr new BIP editor</span>
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:17:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> agree
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:17:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> hidden RPC is maybe okay
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:17:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I thought we were talking about GUI exposed somehow
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:17:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no, no, this is not GUI, just a RPC pull
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:18:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> GUI's def. to late.. ok: #topic Luke-jr new BIP editor
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:18:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> ACK!
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:18:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> what's the reason for gmaxwells step back?
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:18:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> (but maybe this is not the topic)
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:18:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I don't think we need to discuss that publically, you can ask him
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:18:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Right.
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:18:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i think there are no objections to Luke-Jr being bip editor, especially given gmaxwell asked him
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:19:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> I don't know, and don't think we should pry into gmaxwell's private reasons in a meeting.
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:19:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:19:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> yeah, why gmaxwell doesn't want to do it isn't relevant to how good Luke-Jr will be
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:19:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> and Luke's email to the list earlier is good evidence he'll do a good job
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:19:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> he's been active with the repository at least
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:20:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> so far I haven't had any emails on missing BIP assignments, although it's only been an hour or two
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:20:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> what do you mean with "BIPs not in bitcoin/bips"? are there BIPs somewhere else?
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:20:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> there are assignments with no draft in the repo, I suspect
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:20:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, now the difficult task of allocating numbers falls to you
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:21:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> BIP100 is not in bitcoin/bips
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:22:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> first priority regarding number assignment is probably the segwit BIP
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:22:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> do we know if BIP100 was ever officially assigned?
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:22:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it was not
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:22:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> You can't "unassign" it now
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:22:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well at least you can't allocate anything else to it anymore
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:22:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:23:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> pity leaving it off the index will be taken politically
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:23:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> I'll give people 24 hours to notify me of missing assignments, then I'll get to some priority ones (like BIP 100 and segwit) and wait a little more to go through the rest of the pending ones
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:23:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> there's no strong need to leave it off the index
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:23:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> suggested topic: more detailed roadmap for next few major projects
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:24:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> though it should be clear that people should not self-assign numbers, gmaxwell by definition assigned a different number if people claimed their own
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:24:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> does jgarzik's bips repo have a current BIP 100 draft I can PR?
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:24:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:24:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jgarzik&gt;</span> on a branch
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:24:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I'll give "202" a different number for that..
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:24:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but it's too late to do that for bip100
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:24:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jgarzik:</span> can you PR it? ;)
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:24:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:24:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jgarzik&gt;</span> Luke-Jr, sure
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:24:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> ack on 202
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:25:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jgarzik&gt;</span> Luke-Jr, with "202", I tried to do a new method of (1) put in drafts/ dir with no number assigned, (2) have BIP editor move-and-assign-num-and-update-index
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:25:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jgarzik&gt;</span> to respond to self-assignment complaints
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:25:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jgarzik:</span> thanks; that sounds reasonable
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:26:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">re:</span> detailed plans, is everyone aware of my segwit previous block proof? I don't think there are any outstanding objections to it if it's structured as a tree for the sake of fraud proofs
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:26:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic  </span><span class="topicline">more detailed roadmap for next few major projects</span>
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:27:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> thanks, i just wanted to make a request for a bit of direction (like your response to gmaxwell's email) on what sort of timelines are and order of implemntation of various work: segwit, versionbits (if its still happening), BIP 68,112,113
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:28:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> And other major features we might want for 0.13, such as RBF functionality in the wallet?
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:28:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> anyone willing to work on RBF wallet functionality?
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:28:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> would be best to ask the people working on those
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:28:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Seems like we have a lot of things on our plate and having some concentration of effort on various things might be helpful
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:28:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> for fee bumping at least
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:28:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> I will work on the RBF features for the wallet.
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:29:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> nice jonasschnelli!
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:29:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> great, thanks! feel free to ask me any questions
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:29:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> good
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:29:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i apologize for pretty absent lately
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:29:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> keep in mind some merchants explicitly plan to *reject* RBF-optin transactions
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:29:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i was thinking that perhaps you, sipa, and gmaxwell might have a list of goals for 0.13 , we could obviously give feedback.  but i'm willing to work on many of those things but would appreciate knowing where the effort is requested.
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:29:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> so you may need to implement a "disable RBF for this tx and retry" logic
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:30:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> or not just for 0.13 as there will be SF's before then?
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:30:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well you made great progress on segwit sipa
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:30:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> thanks, but other things can't be put on hold either
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:30:31 </span><span class="nka">* Luke-Jr</span> <span class="ac">notes segwit is necessarily decoupled from release versions</span>
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:30:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> Yes. We need to focus that. And wisely choose the default.
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:30:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> I'd be inclined to wait and see on that; solution may be to just turn the bit off, with logic otherwise unchanged
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:30:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> default IMO should be to attempt RBF, and if rejected, retry without it ;)
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:31:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i'm planning to post an rfc for a network stack overhaul in the next week or so as well, i realize it's getting a bit late for that
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:31:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you you planning on working on segwit relative to the v0.12 branch, or v0.13?
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:31:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> 0.12
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:31:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> otoh, BIP70 txs already imply the merchant is responsible for getting it mined, so maybe RBF is less important there
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:31:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ok good, that's probably faster
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:31:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i should stop rebasing on master
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:31:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> perfect example.  it would be nice to know when we should all spend time looking at that, so we can get it in and merged
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:31:50 </span><span class="nka">* Luke-Jr</span> <span class="ac">suggests the last common commit in 0.12 and master</span>
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:31:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> may be better to rebase on 0.12 branch then :)
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:32:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, will do soon
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:32:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yup. i've held off on requesting review so far. i'll begin that very soon.
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:32:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> nice. And sorry,... I still own you some reviews of the current code.
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:32:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> anything based on 3cd836c1d855b92e7c73ab31979f471c4f8dad68 should merge into 0.12 and master
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:32:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think our choice of efforts for working towards consensus changes is independent from releases
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:32:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> nah, i just poked you for an idea, wasn't looking for review yet
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:33:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. Poke me again if it's time...
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:33:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> will do, thanks
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:33:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> sure.  i just mean an overall game plan.  for instance i reviewed versionbits, found a bug, got no feedback, and now am not sure we're even doing versionbits.  thats fine, things change.  but it would be nice if other people knew that maybe they shouldn't go review versionbits right now
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:33:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> gotta run, bbiab
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:34:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but yes it makes sense to make a list of goals for 0.13, although as the releases are time-based it's conditional on things being ready on time
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:34:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, i think bip9 is moved a bit back in priority
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:34:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes thats all i'm saying a bit more communication on priorities
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:34:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree with that choice?
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:34:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> agree with morcos. A clear plan could result in investing resources into the right parts.
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:35:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> whether or not we definitely need versionbits will depend on whether or not there is a competing fork on the network
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:36:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> sure. more like no objection. there are many plans that are all good plans.  having one of them though is better than not.
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:36:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well I suggest that everyone that is working on something that they plan to have finished for 0.13 sends me proposals, I can merge it into a plan
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:36:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:36:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> also, in that case, we can do my pseudo-versionbits with very little code
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:37:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> there are currently two implementations of version bits. one by codeshark and one by rusty
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:38:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and neither is maintaines at this point
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:38:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> afaik
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:38:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> I know, I just mean, if we're in a position where we need it ASAP and the actual versionbits isn't production quality
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:38:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> my version is about two lines of code, at the cost of theoretically being a hardfork in cases where the fork fails
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:40:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> pfft freenode
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:40:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think we've drifted off topic a bit. versionbits as new topic? or something else?
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:40:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> there is a moral obligation to have VB or something with similar functionality available
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:40:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">versionbits (BIP9)</span>
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:40:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span>  there is?  or is that a question?
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:41:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> sorry, i read "objection"
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:41:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> agreed
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:41:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> "Pieter Wuille proposes a moral requirement to rewrite Bitcoin in Visual Basic."
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:41:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> heh
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:41:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> haha
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:41:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> hahaha
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:42:02 </span><span class="nka">* petertodd</span> <span class="ac">is thinking of his Compaq 386 running Windows 3.1</span>
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:42:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> gotta go back to VB 4.0 for that I think
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:42:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> back to topic?
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:42:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> urgh, is there a freenode netsplit going on atm?
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> sorry
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:43:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think there are a few long-lasting things that need a scheduled time to do: consensus refactoring (just moving things to one directory is already a great step)
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:43:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> another is c++11
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:43:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agree as well that something like versionbits is "a moral obligation", but indeed not the first priority
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:43:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> another is clang-format
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:43:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> bleh clang-format
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:43:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> anyway, I agree that versionbits is a moral requirement, but we also have a moral requirement to release code that works and is well-tested
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:43:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1 for c+11, -1 for clang format
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:43:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, good to hear
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:43:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> it's just not worth it.
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:43:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but yes, jtimon's libconsensus refactoring and c++11 would be nice to do for 0.13
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:44:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but people still have an epectation that clang-format wilk happen at some point
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:44:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> MarcoFalkes git diff format script should be recommended.
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:44:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> if there is a spell checker, i could use that so i stop getting so many comment fixups to my pulls.
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:44:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we need to communicate that it will not happen then
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:44:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> there's a way to run spellcheck on your source code and it will check only comments I think
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:44:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> if we're going to begin using C++11 in 0.13, then I think we should have configure use C++11 to compile 0.12 by default (and fail loudly if unavailable)
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:44:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> don't know exctly how though :-)
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:45:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> because once we start actually /using/ C++11, it will be difficult to go back
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:45:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> that's not a bad idea.
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:45:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> weak nak; i suggest compiling masting in both c++11 and c++03 in master now
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:45:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> *compiling
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:45:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think we should just make the decision to use c++11
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:45:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that's fine, as long as C++11 isn't required for 0.13
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:45:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> there's no way to go back, and that's ok
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:46:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> how is c++11 related to a full remove of boost?
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:46:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i believe Luke-Jr was talking about backporting
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:46:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> after your PR, does c++11 compile?
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:46:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> that's okay, IF it actually is workable. which is far from clear.
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:46:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> c++11 takes over some parts that boost is now used for
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:46:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> are we _ready_ with c++ for gitian/depends/...?
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:46:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> travis still needs a c++11 compiler
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:47:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes. from my tests, all platforms compile bitcoin 100% now.
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:47:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> still need to do depends, yes. i have that patch ready
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:47:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> Users running the latest stable versions of major distros should not need to use depends/ to compile working dynamic binaries.
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:47:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> yes, was working on getting travis in shape first. looking at options. looks like the easiest it just to install an updated gcc :\
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:47:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ugh
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:47:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;droark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> Armory used some C++11 code with Gitian and worked fine. I don't think the Core codebase needs to make Gitian-specific changes.
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:47:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> travis still can't do a newer distro?
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:47:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> they don't. works with system libs
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:48:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> that should be new Travis success message "all platforms compile bitcoin 100%"
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:48:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, but not with caching
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:48:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> travis can use docker
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:48:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> ^^
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:48:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> bleh :/
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:48:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> well, the first point is we need travis to build *something* in c++11
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:48:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> one of my bitcoin-core clone projects is now using c++11 with travis and gitian: https://github.com/digitalbitbox/dbb-app/blob/master/.travis.yml
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:48:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> GCC 4.x at least has serious ABI problems that suggest that is unlikely.. and last I checked, I couldn't even compile Bitcoin Core with C++11
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:48:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> without caching it'd be useless, building depends every time
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:48:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i can have travis updated today using gcc 4.8, same as release builds
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:48:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> once that is done and merged, i am fine with deciding whether to full switch or not
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:48:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> SGTM
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:49:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">cfields enables c++11 build in travis</span>
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:49:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> see master as of ~12h ago
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:49:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> cool, will try
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:50:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> please report any build issues. i tried to ensure that any local setup will work
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:50:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> report on github, or IRC?
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:50:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> you can add that to the success message :)
<a name="l-291"></a><span class="tm">19:51:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">httpserver.cpp:255:36:</span> warning: â€˜auto_ptrâ€™ is deprecated (declared at /usr/lib/gcc/i686-pc-linux-gnu/4.8.5/include/g++-v4/backward/auto_ptr.h:87) [-Wdeprecated-declarations]
<a name="l-292"></a><span class="tm">19:51:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> #7302 would be good, for posterity
<a name="l-293"></a><span class="tm">19:51:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> ignore that just a warning, we can't replace that without breaking c++03 compat
<a name="l-294"></a><span class="tm">19:52:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> it is a harmless warning; unique_ptr is compatible with auto_ptr's interface, but suoerior
<a name="l-295"></a><span class="tm">19:52:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> deprecated in c++11, but not removed. auto_ptr -&gt; unique_ptr will be one of the first changes after c++11 is enabled
<a name="l-296"></a><span class="tm">19:52:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> makes sense
<a name="l-297"></a><span class="tm">19:52:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">/usr/include/boost/thread/future_error_code.hpp:36:53:</span> error: â€˜enum_typeâ€™ is not a member of â€˜boost::future_errcâ€™
<a name="l-298"></a><span class="tm">19:52:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but that gets too detailed, any other topics for the meeting?
<a name="l-299"></a><span class="tm">19:52:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> maybe my system boost at fault though
<a name="l-300"></a><span class="tm">19:52:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> will move this to -core-dev
<a name="l-301"></a><span class="tm">19:52:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> whow, future_error_code
<a name="l-302"></a><span class="tm">19:53:04 </span><span class="nka">* jonasschnelli</span> <span class="ac">is wondering how we solve the c++11 mutex stuff for mingw (one we move away from boost)</span>
<a name="l-303"></a><span class="tm">19:53:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> small status update: segnet will do a backwark incompatible change soon, to change the commitment structure; after that, first priority is getting mining code to work with it
<a name="l-304"></a><span class="tm">19:53:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> can we get a very quick/general segwit status update. i've seen a few things flying around
<a name="l-305"></a><span class="tm">19:53:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> heh, thanks :)
<a name="l-306"></a><span class="tm">19:53:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> ^
<a name="l-307"></a><span class="tm">19:53:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">segwit status update</span>
<a name="l-308"></a><span class="tm">19:53:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> segnet has been up since dec 31
<a name="l-309"></a><span class="tm">19:53:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> still working on that
<a name="l-310"></a><span class="tm">19:53:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i will also produce a separate branch with just consensus changes
<a name="l-311"></a><span class="tm">19:54:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> which could be perhaos backportable further back than 0.12
<a name="l-312"></a><span class="tm">19:54:25 </span><span class="nka">* jtimon</span> <span class="ac">agrees with Luke-Jr on working on top of last-0.12.99 3cd836c1 when possible</span>
<a name="l-313"></a><span class="tm">19:55:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> what is the advantage over using 0.12?
<a name="l-314"></a><span class="tm">19:55:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ah, 0.12 is still moving
<a name="l-315"></a><span class="tm">19:55:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, will rebase on that
<a name="l-316"></a><span class="tm">19:55:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> 0.12 won't merge into master nicely
<a name="l-317"></a><span class="tm">19:55:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, 0.12 is still moving
<a name="l-318"></a><span class="tm">19:55:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> ack
<a name="l-319"></a><span class="tm">19:56:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> 4 min
<a name="l-320"></a><span class="tm">19:56:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> nothing more on segwit?
<a name="l-321"></a><span class="tm">19:57:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> it works? :)
<a name="l-322"></a><span class="tm">19:57:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> hah
<a name="l-323"></a><span class="tm">19:58:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> meeting over then?
<a name="l-324"></a><span class="tm">19:58:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
