=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 18:59:45 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-08-11-18.59.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* segwit policy limits  (wumpus, 19:03:14)

* softfork to make low-s required simultaneously with segwit  (wumpus,
  19:14:50)

* raising mandatory script flags to include bip66  (wumpus, 19:29:41)

* rc3 go-ahead  (wumpus, 19:47:04)
  * LINK: review blog post
    https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/pull/199  (wumpus,
    19:55:01)



Meeting ended at 20:00:39 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (75)
* sipa (61)
* luke-jr (27)
* jtimon (24)
* gmaxwell (17)
* instagibbs (15)
* btcdrak (9)
* jonasschnelli (7)
* cfields (7)
* kanzure (6)
* GreenIsMyPepper (4)
* jl2012 (3)
* michagogo (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* murch (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4