=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:04:02 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-10-13-19.04.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* 0.13.1  (wumpus, 19:04:52)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8916  (MarcoFalke,
    19:05:27)

* BIP9 parameters  (wumpus, 19:11:38)
  * ACTION: propose segwit activation parameters on the ML  (wumpus,
    19:25:19)

* testnet4 (jtimon)  (wumpus, 19:25:49)

* prefinal alert  (wumpus, 19:31:50)
  * ACTION: achow101 post about alert system for bitcoin.org  (wumpus,
    19:34:21)
  * LINK: segwit dev guide for downstream
    https://bitcoincore.org/en/segwit_wallet_dev/  (wumpus, 19:35:31)

* sybil attacks  (wumpus, 19:51:36)



Meeting ended at 20:00:10 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* achow101
  * achow101 post about alert system for bitcoin.org



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (67)
* gmaxwell (58)
* jtimon (37)
* BlueMatt (32)
* sipa (28)
* btcdrak (19)
* michagogo (13)
* sdaftuar (11)
* morcos (8)
* cfields (7)
* achow101 (7)
* instagibbs (5)
* MarcoFalke (4)
* Chris_Stewart_5 (4)
* lightningbot (2)
* jcorgan (1)
* CodeShark (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4