<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Jul  7 19:00:10 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> thanks. here.
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> hi
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:00:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Welcome to meeting.
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:00:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> proposed topic: 0.13.0rc1
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:00:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ack
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:00:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> This week was a week of many reverts. Reverting will continue until morale improves.
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> Hi
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">0.13.0rc1</span>
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:01:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> somewhat present
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:01:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Are we +1 day with the 0.13 splitoff?
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:01:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> foremost, I cannot build a release at this moment, as gitian lxc building is broken
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:01:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> so there are a couple bugs that still need to be fixed for 0.13
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:01:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Is the HD issue a blocker for the rc?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:01:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8212 / https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8213
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:01:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ok. I'll handle those next.
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:01:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> which HD issue?
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:02:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> I couldn't restore from a HD backup
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:02:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think there is no "real" HD issue
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:02:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Broken in what way?
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:02:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">michagogo:</span> please read the issues
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:02:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> Could you look into the travis failure
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:02:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> ?
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:02:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Will do..
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:02:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> It's unclear to me if we understand the issue you've encountered completely, if we do not understand it, I think it is a blocker.
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:02:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> (Sorry, I've not had much free time for this stuff in the past months)
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:02:35 </span><span class="nka">* michagogo</span> <span class="ac">goes to check</span>
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:02:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if HD is broken, we have to disable  it for 0.13
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:02:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;michagogo&gt;</span> (Gitian issues or Bitcoin Core?)
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:02:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> or at least rc1
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:02:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> You can see the issue on travis
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:02:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Sure. Let me check MarcoFalke HD test
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:03:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> It is either an error in my test code
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:03:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Disabling it indeed would be an option.
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:03:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> or some issue with IsMine() or something else
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:03:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> This may be a current design limitation if my understanding is correct. But I'm happy to discuss elsewhere/elsetime.
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:03:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> I'd rather fix it than disable it
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:03:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> link to travis failure?
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:03:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't want to block rc1 too long
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:03:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8309/files
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:03:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rather have a test release out as soon as possible
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:03:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> remaining issue/prs for 0.13 https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestones/0.13.0
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:04:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> pull 8309
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:04:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> ^
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:04:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> lets talk about the other things then move on to the hd issue as it's own topic.
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:04:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> thanks
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:04:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> planning was to do rc1 yesterday, but it was clear it wasn't possible
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:04:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> some things can be merged as-is I think
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:04:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Also there are some issues open by sdaftuar
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:05:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#8305 </span><span class="cmdline">(headers sync issue), #8312 (mempool DoS post-segwit merge), and #8295 (mining code fixes post segwit-merge) are all meant for 0.13.0</span>
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:05:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#7678 </span><span class="cmdline">(release notes) is a TODO for -final, not rc1, could use some help there though</span>
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:06:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> are they ready for merge?
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:06:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> sdaftuar those should be tagged with the milestone then
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:06:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i will write some release notes for the tx relay changes
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:06:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (but not now)
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:06:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i believe all could be merged now.  after discussing with sipa, i think i'll make #8312 simpler even than it is now, since no one has reviewed anyway
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:06:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right, release notes is not urgent now, just needs to be done before final
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:06:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's worry about rc1 now
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:07:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#8305 </span><span class="cmdline">and #8295 are done as far as i know</span>
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:07:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> (no review though)
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:07:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes the problem is review - I don't think people are very active at the moment, probably tired from all the big merges such as segwit
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:08:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I've been very busy with testing, in fact.
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:08:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> testing is good
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:08:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> releasing rc1 will result in a lot of testing, too
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:09:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i was less active the past week; i'll be back tomorrow
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:10:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok I see jonasschnelli already added 0.13 milestone to sdaftuar's pulls, thanks
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:10:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes.
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:10:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> I've been inactive as well. Nice and refreshed now, I can help with review of 8295/8312 once the build issues are worked out
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:11:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> i'll try to look at 8312 this weekend
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:11:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> I wish we could get rid of the as-root patching requirement for arm linux, it'd make things much easier build-ssytem wise
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:12:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i can look into a quick-hack work-around for rc1. but iirc, it's hard to avoid until ubuntu fixes
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:13:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> well for 0.14 we can switch to 16.04, which I guess has fixed this, but for 0.13 we're stuck with it. I don't mind the gitian prepare script change, but I'm not sure what the gitian people think about it, devrandom hasnt' commented on it
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:13:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> quick alternative would bt c/p the descriptor to linux-arm.yml for now
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:14:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> will we be able to distribute arm linux binaries for 0.13?
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:14:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yes, that was done, but it has added an awkward requirement to the gitian build descriptor
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:14:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:15:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> would you like me to just copy the descriptor for now? The issue is the conflicting toolchains, so that would solve it. It would just mean an extra gbuild.
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:15:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> in any case, to conclude this topic: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/20 is an accurate reflection of what has to be done before rc1? (apart from the release notes issue)
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:16:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ack
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:17:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> I'll try to contact devrandom about the gitian change, if we can't speed that up, I think splitting up the descriptor makes sense. It does mean temporary changes to the release process, I preferred it this way :)
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:17:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:18:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">wumpus contact devrandom about https://github.com/devrandom/gitian-builder/pull/123</span>
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:18:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> what about segwit deployment parameters
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:18:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> not for 0.13.0
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:18:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we could add that as proposed topic, but not relevant for 0.13
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:19:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> first backport to 0.12, figuring out cb+segwit, and planning releases
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:19:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> it's explained in https://bitcoincore.org/en/lifecycle/#consensus-rules
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:19:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">Help with review on https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/20</span>
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:19:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we're done with this topic though so i'm ok with switching
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:20:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Okay can we talk briefly about the HD wallet thing?
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:20:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">HD wallet issue</span>
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:20:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> what is the hd wallet issue number?
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:20:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8309/files
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:21:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Its a PR (failing test)
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:21:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> currently looking at it.
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:21:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> The rpc-test is pretty simple: usehd=1, then backup wallet.dat
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:21:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The addresses are re-generated deterministic... but somehow reindex fails..
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:21:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Do some transactions and discard wallet.dat
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:21:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> If I understand the issue correctly there is a design limitation that we can easily work around.  I believe the limitation is that it only scans the keys currently in the pool, and when the pool expands it doesn't go back at all, and it doesn't expand the pool based on used keys as it goes. This means that recovery will miss things without a recan in many cases.
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:21:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> But I could misunderstand.
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:22:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. The simples HD feature does not cover restores...
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:22:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> I am running rescan and reindex. None of it fixes it
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:22:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> If I am not incorrect here, then simply setting the keypool default really large when usehd is set would be an adequate workaround, I believe.
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:22:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Restore is manual work (including a rescan)
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:22:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> if a rescan isn't fixing it, thats a more serious issue than I was thinking.
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:23:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> I was logging the result of IsMine on each tx and it retured false, so the transactions were never added to the wallet in the second run (rescan)
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:23:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes... I currently trying to find out why MarcoFalke test fails even after a rescan.
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:23:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> In any case we cannot RC it with a serious doubt about it not working. It could be disabled in an RC if needed.
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:23:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but if you set keypool really large then it will generate and store all those keys, defeating the purpose of using HD in the first place, or not?
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:23:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But IMO it's unrelated to HD,... the keys are recreated.
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:23:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, I think this scary, I don't think this is ready for a release
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:23:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it's the same keys every time, no defeating.
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:23:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Sure. Let me first try to find the root cause before we consider a revert
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:24:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> agree
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:24:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rever wouldn't be necessary, just default the flag to false
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:24:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it defaults to true for new wallets now which is what makes it scary if it would be somehow broken
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:24:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Sure. But we probably don't want to ship a (per default disabled) feature which _could_ includes bugs. :)
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:24:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> In any case we cannot RC it with a serious doubt about it not working. It could be disabled in an RC if needed. If the issue can be reduced to needs rescan I described then I think increasing the pool is adequate.
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:24:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> is the flag documented in --help?
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:25:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> We need to understand the issue at a minimum or make it unavailable, too risky as even an option. IMO. But I don't have any doubt that we will understand the issue in a day or so.
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:25:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> have you tried the test with HD disabled (just import your created keys)?
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:25:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I haven't looked at it yet myself except passively watching the discussion.
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:25:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> likewise
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:26:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i will look soon
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:26:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> no
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:26:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think without knowing the root cause of the problem actions are useless.
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:26:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agreed
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:26:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree; we need to understand it
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:26:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I will know more about it in a couple of hours.
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:26:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and i believe there is plenty of time for that
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:27:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> before when?
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:27:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Okay well the action is to determine the issue(s). :)  Though if wumpus decides to cut an RC before we do, I'd ask that the option be disabled in it.
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:27:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, need to disable it completely then, I agree
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:27:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. But it could also be a serious import/rescan issue (not related to HD)
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:28:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the non-HD rescan test passes, right?
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:28:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:28:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i believe that rpc test is less elaborate
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:28:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> did you try your new test without HD MarcoFalke?
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:28:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think we would need the same test (that fails) without HD
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:29:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> You can't create keys deterministically without HD
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:29:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I can see the exact keys in the wallet after the restore but I can see rescan failing to reconstruct the wtxs.
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:29:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> no need to discuss the details here
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:29:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> oh sure, you can't do exactly the dsame thing
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:29:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">MarcoFalke:</span> you could create 100 keys and reimport them...
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:30:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> anyways,... I'll have a look at it and will report on the PR
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:30:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> in any case, I think this can move outside the meeting now, we known what general things we need to do to make progress.
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:30:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:30:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:30:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> any other topics?
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:31:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Sure, an announcement:
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:31:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> *crickets*
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:31:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> oO
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:32:20 </span><span class="nka">* petertodd</span> <span class="ac">braces for an incoming text wall</span>
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:32:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Matt has announced his new relaynetwork work that uses UDP and FEC, http://bluematt.bitcoin.ninja/2016/07/07/relay-networks/  the current not really fully cooked software gets worldwide block propagation 99% of the time in less than 100ms over the fiber-path distances.
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:32:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:32:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Saw this. Impressive work! Well done.
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:33:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (actually 98% of the time in the last day)
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:33:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Also the FIBRE website is http://bitcoinfibre.org/
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:33:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> nice!
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:33:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> awesome!
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:33:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> And his deployment uses only cheap VPSes.
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:33:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> wow, i saw the website but hadn't appreciated how good the numbers were
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:33:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i just looked at how oretty the graphs were
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:33:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> may be of some interest to some people, he's trying to get other people to setup parallel networks, and put up an extensive guide, including tricks for getting access to low latency connectivity between asia and europe. :)
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:34:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we need neutrino-based transmissions.
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:34:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> lol, I was just about to say
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:34:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Stats are at http://bitcoinrelaynetwork.org/stats_ng.html   there is also plety of room to improve the software/protocol still.
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:34:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> reminds me, I wrote a short story about that awhile back...
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:35:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> neutrono-based transmissions are easy, compared to the receiver part :)
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:35:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> The github project is at https://github.com/bitcoinfibre
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:35:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> what? don't you have a few tonnes of heavy water laying around?
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:36:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Including the actual speed of light delays, he gets worldwide sync in 98% of the time in under 238ms, 80% in under 165ms.  So thats all fun.
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:36:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i believe production of heavy water may be more decentralized than sha256 asic mining production.
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:37:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sxl78pWW8Vk
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:38:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> onto other subjects, I'd still like to see a testnet-defaulting binary during the RCs. My contribution to that effort was getting master working correctly on testnet again. :) but I haven't done anything else. :(
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:38:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> of course I do, but not enough shielded undergorund space to put it
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:39:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> there are trillions of gallons of heavy water not so many miles from me; ... it's just unfortunately mixed with lots of light water and salt.
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:39:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> that's why I took up caving
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:40:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> what's the reason for an additional binary?
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:40:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> oh, you mean default to testnet until final release?
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:40:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> we could do that now, eg before the rc1
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:40:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well at least if I could build releases, dang
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:40:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yea, I think we should too, we just couldn't do it when testnet was getting stuck for many, but it's fixed now.
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:41:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> not the rc1 itself, more like a master-build-with-only-testnet-enabled
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:41:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> I've found that a lot of people would like to play with it are actually thrown off by setting an option. It's not so intutive for GUI users.  I think this would greatly increase testnet usage to have builds that work more like bitcoin/altcoin installs.
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:41:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rc1 should definitely have mainnet by default, like any rc
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:42:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> did you see #8285? it's super-easy now for windows GUI users
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:42:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> hmm
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:42:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> one possibility I considered is that we could just sniff the binary name and have -testnet and -testnet-qt change the default, and ship a link. :P
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:42:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I wonder if a wrapper script with -testnet would help those users?
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:42:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> but perhaps thats too much for now. :)
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:43:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8285 exactly does that
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:43:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ah nice, i missed that
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:43:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I didn't see it.
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:43:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (or forgot seeing it!)
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:43:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ah cool, thanks!
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:44:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Thats really awesome.
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:44:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> just like mainnet/testnet wallets on my android phone
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:44:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> in any case, it's still left with the 'upgrade testnet without upgrading mainnet' issue, that a testnet only build from master would fix.
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:44:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> indeed, bitcoin wallet for android has been doing a similar thing
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:44:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> if you could do builds. :P
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:46:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> heh, hint taken. Working on the split descriptors now.
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:47:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> thanks cfields
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:47:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> any other topics?
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:47:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> happy halving day :
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:47:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> )
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:47:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> :)
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:48:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> hah, same to you
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:48:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I wonder if there is some scifi where halving day is where half the people die? it seems right.
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:48:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> I'll be hiding in a cave most of that day fyi - so if the world ends don't call me :P
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:49:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> satoshi should have made it a 10% think, so we could call it DECIMATION DAY
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:49:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> *thing
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:49:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> that sounds like a wise thing to do, hide in a cave until it blows over
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:49:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i wish i had a cave here
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:49:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm in the middle of paris
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:50:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and there is some football thing
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:50:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you've got the most awesome sewer system, and the catacombs!
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:50:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> catacombs.
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:50:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> catacombs close in 10 minutes.
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:50:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> "officially" speaking...
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:51:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> shortly back to the HD issue: I think it's a simple bug in the test https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8309/files#diff-ee4afcd6c3d5f19104c21bcc03407aeaR71 ( self.node_args[1].extend(['-rescan']) does not work)
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:51:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> hah.
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:51:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> All light are green. :)
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:51:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yay
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:51:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> pfft. plenty of people have gone after hours and spent the rest of their lives there.
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:51:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> self.node_args[1].extend(['-rescan']) should be  self.node_args[1] + ['-rescan']
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:51:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;MarcoFalke&gt;</span> Wow
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:52:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> wow, very good news, and you found it within the meeting :D
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:52:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> oh, is node_args[1] a tuple?
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:52:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> that may just leave us with the surprising behavior that it doesn't fill the pool on its own. which would be good news, since thats easy to workaround.
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:52:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm not familiar with extend() but seems to be the wrong function for that purpose.
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:53:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But I guess we want MarcoFalke's RPC test in 0.13! :)
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:53:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> extend() is list only, and modifies in place
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:53:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, extend is in place and returns nothing
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:54:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> At least we tested again the HD feature...
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:54:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> 6 minutes
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:54:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> are we done?
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:54:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> until we lose you to the catacombs?
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:54:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think so?
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:55:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
