<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">18:59:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">18:59:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Mar 10 18:59:59 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">18:59:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> topics?
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;evoskuil&gt;</span> here
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:01:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> we have a list of remaining segwit items that were written on whiteboard at MIT...  should we assign those?
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:01:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> sure
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:01:18 </span><span class="nka">* sipa</span> <span class="ac">hides</span>
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:01:25 </span><span class="nka">* btcdrak</span> <span class="ac">locked the door</span>
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">remaining segwit items</span>
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm happy to help,... probably in the wallet section.
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:02:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> seems to me it would nice to buckle down and prioritize  BIP 9,  BIPs 68,112,113  ,   segwit.   i mean i think we are all working on those things, but there is still more to do on all of them
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:02:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> my plan was to rebase segwit on top of bip9, add the rewind logic to continie after post-softfork uograde, and do a new testnet
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:02:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> eh, new segnet
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:02:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> great
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:02:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> when do you think to deploy the new testnet?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:02:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> we also need to discuss standardness rules
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:02:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> (or rather, propose and discuss)
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:02:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> What was decided for safety on the edge of the rule change in case of reorg?
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:03:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I think my suggestion would be to push that problem to wallet users
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:03:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> i believe we decided to advise wallet authors to wait some time after segwit activates before using
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:03:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> one possibility is not enabling relay/mempool logic for segwit transactions until 2 period after activatation
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:03:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes authors i meant
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:04:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> I don't understand the context of your question.  Generall new soft fork rules should not be used immediately.
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:04:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> another is to just be cautious and nit enable the functionality in wallets until a post segwit release
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:04:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> this one is more dangerous than usual though
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:04:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> it's just like p2sh.
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:04:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> OK, that seems adequate enough.
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:04:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I'm not that concerned about edge case reorg situations
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:04:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> its a bit riskier than p2sh...  don't need a preimage
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:04:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it's not situation*s*
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:05:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> in core I would recommend that we would switch to using segwit as default in a subsiquent release after the SF activates.
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:05:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> so have it ready and auto-use it whiteout creating another release?
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:06:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> so in any case, i think we just advise wallet authors to wait some minimum amount of time after activation to send segwit txs.. they are already going to have to put in some code to wait until it activates
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:06:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *without
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:06:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> either wait until next release - or wait a few blocks after activation before enabling it in wallet
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:06:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:06:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> auto-enable in in the wallet after 95%?
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:06:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> no.
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:06:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I think better to wait a release code afterwards
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:06:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> not even at 100%
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:07:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. Then do it over the release-cycle..
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:07:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I recommend using a release. Automatic behavior is not needed here. Also-- it's a pretty big behavioral change to use it, e.g. you'd be issuing other address styles in response.
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:07:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Agree.
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:07:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> also we haven't written that code yet anyway
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:07:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> that is an open question
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:07:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I just think there is a hight incentive to use it (fees)
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:07:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> this is something that can be decided once segwit has already been deployed and is awaiting activation
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:07:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> having that triggered by invisible-to-the-user network behavior isn't reat.
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:08:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> great*
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:08:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i wish we had an address style for segwit part of the standard :(
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:09:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> no you don't. Deploying a new address style takes forever. :P what you wish for is a magic wand.
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:09:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> sipa I thought we did? BIP142?
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:09:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> we haven't been pushing it because of concerns regarding scary "new addresses"
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:09:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> P2WPKH?
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:09:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think we have more buy-in from wallet authors about segwit now, than p2sh had at the timr
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:09:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i think we should do that though, otherwise everyone is going to embed them in p2sh which is kind of silly
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:10:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> p2sh was almost entirely under the radar as far as the community at large
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:10:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> also, continued use of base58 is awful. I am going to refuse to discuss address encodings with anyone who hasn't read an address to me over the phone. :)
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:10:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> I would suggest brining it back. There's no problem.
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:10:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> thats not the case; besides there is a material difference in the sheer mass of code that must be updated. Besides why is this being discussed there.
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:11:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> there sort of is a problem still...
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:11:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> I oppose it in the strongest possible terms.
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:11:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> both internal and external
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:11:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> you can change you mind :)
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:11:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> internally some people hate base58, externally some people are still grandstanding with the "segwit is too hard" crap
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:11:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> there is certain value in user expectations of things that look like base58
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:12:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I think it's a battle not worth fighting right now
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:12:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:12:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:12:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> whats your number
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:12:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> haha
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:12:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> You are on subject-matter-ignore until you call me and successfully read me a base58 address.  :)
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:13:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i would really like to have some psegwit afdressddress as part of the "package"
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:13:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> PM :P
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:13:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> I'm not suggesting I'm necessarily in support of base58 addresses, but my point is that it is not up to us here to figure out addressing for segwit...that is something WALLETS need to be involved in...people who actually have some ux experience, which does not exist here
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:14:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> BlueMatt says "..."
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:14:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> yes indeed. but thats also why taking on a new address type at the same time is not a good idea, it would get in the way of that kind of collaboration.
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:14:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> hahha
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:14:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> agreed
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:14:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> do you think so?
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:14:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think it's the opposite
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:14:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> I think the idea of pushing off address types for segwit for broader feedback is a good thing
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:14:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that was a lot of backspaces.
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:15:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> good UI design wouldn't even burden users with having to deal with copy/pasting cryptographic keys
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:15:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> but that's an entirely separate discussion
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:15:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> FWIW, I've been thinking of implementing the payment protocol better in Core
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:15:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> including the new BIP 75 stuff
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:15:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We are far away from designing the UX... this is a topic we can talk about in 2-3 years.
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:16:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> :)
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:16:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok, let's postpone that address discussion
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:16:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> But sipa: is the P2WPKH address type not okay?,.. addresses like "p2xtZoXeX5X8BP8JfFhQK2nD3emtjch7UeFm"?
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:16:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> you mean bip142?
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:17:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Easy to handle by existing wallets?
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:17:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> ACK
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:17:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> sipa was raising the concern that if something weren't done sooner we'd be left stuck with 80 bit security forever, I reminded him in PM that we have an upcoming checksig improvement to reduce transaction sizes by 30% which would be a nice time to do a new address type too. :)
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:17:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> would be good to have concrete proposals for address formats ,say as BIPs
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:17:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> we'll have plenty of opportunities to introduce new stuff in the future
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:18:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> right now we should focus on the path of least resistance
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:18:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the reason against incorporating bip142 is people yelling "see! sehwit needs new address types! everyone has to upgrade! not backward compatible!"
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:18:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> The amount going on right now is too great to be able to afford forced seralization.
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:18:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> eventually my hope is we'll actually have a competent ecosystem that can actually do tech
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:18:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> but for now we must deal with what we have
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:18:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> Yeah I think it would make a lot of sense to release just the P2WPKH address
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:18:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> we could add sending support, and discourage anyone from using it to receive for now
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:18:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> You could still uses it over P2SH... but we don't live for the critics.
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:18:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> don't you think everyone is going to say that even more if we don't have address types
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:19:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i don't know
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:19:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm an engineer, not a marketer
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:19:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1 for P2WPKH bip142
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:19:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> shouldn't be expected from you to act as marketeer sipa
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:19:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> you have enough on your plate
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:19:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> next topic?
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:19:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> yes please
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:20:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> suggestions?
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:20:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> (I don't see value in p2wpkh, but let's move on)
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:21:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, if not, that was a quick meeting
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:21:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> there were many things last week that got cut off.
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:21:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> (I'm still too tired and jetlaggy to contribute much now)
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:21:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> If no one has something important... what do you think about my approach of IBD with a pregenerated signed UTXOset?
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:21:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Can I ask people to review the backport PRs for BIP68 and 112? They were straight cherry-picks into 0.12 but they do need a couple eyes on them.
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:22:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> i think thats a bad idea
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:22:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> sounds like a waste of time at best, to be frank. :x
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:22:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">review backport PRs for BIP68 and 112</span>
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:22:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> core devs (or anybody for that matter) should not be authorizing the state of the ledger at any time
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:22:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">IBD with a pregenerated signed UTXOse</span>
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:22:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it's risky, it brings trust into the system
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:22:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> much prefer to see SPV mode until IBD completes
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:23:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">Luke-Jr:</span> Yes. Agree.
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:23:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> who would you trust to sign something like that?
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:23:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> Bob.
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:23:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Just thought we might want to reduce the amount of block-serving even more.
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:23:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, definitely Bob
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:23:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> XD
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:23:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> could be signed by the same users/devs who are signing the gitian builds.
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:24:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that's not reducing block serving; it's changing the trust model instead
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:24:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I agree. It does change the trust model.
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:24:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> hmm don't put too much on their shoulders
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:24:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> without TXO commitments it's unfixable
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:24:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> :p
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:24:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> if we go back to the backport question, we also need to backport all these SF's to 0.11 is that correct?
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:24:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay... so. Then let me not implement it. :)
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:25:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yea, UTXO commitments would make this somewhat more realistic, although it'd still reduce the overall trust model to SPV
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:25:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> yes, better not for now I think
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:25:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">backports to 0.11</span>
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:25:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I was thinking about this this morning. The normal release cadance would have us do so, I believe.
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:25:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> SPV during IBD and a throttled(CPU) IBD is the better approach.
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:26:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> yes, definitely those would be good to have
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:26:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> how practical is it to backport to 0.10?
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:26:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> why 0.10?
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:26:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> topic is backport to 0.11 Luke-Jr :p
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:26:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> 0.10 and 0.11 are close
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:26:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> 0.10?  i'd hoped you guys would be willing to skip 0.11
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:26:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but agree; just 0.11
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:26:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I would skip 0.11
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:26:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we have a published release schedule, no?
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:26:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think backporting to 0.11 is fairly necessary, that's only one release back
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:26:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> of guaranteed support, not limited-to
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:27:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> 0.11 is necessary; 0.10 would be ideal
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:27:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i suppose, i'm worried about how well tested these major changes will be
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:27:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> master, 0.12, 0.11
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:27:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> but I'll deal with 0.10 later I guess
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:27:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 0.10 is not necessary... we once agree in supporting only two major versions.
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:27:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> our lifecycle doc is at https://bitcoincore.org/en/lifecycle/
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:28:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> it was never agreed to drop support for older ones, only to not promise support for them; but that's on me for 0.10 I think
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:28:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> it's a challenge, but I think you can't get around it, some people won't be ready yet to upgrade to 0.12
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:28:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> the backports to 0.12 are trivial, but 0.11 will be a little more annoying, especially for BIP68 I believe
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:29:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> we should just backport them kind of altogether right?
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:29:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> btw the backports for BIP68,112 are #7543 and #7544, I forgot to mention the numbers earlier
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:29:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i suppose they don't overlap that much
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:29:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i think i can make sure BIP68 for 0.11 backports properly
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:30:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> you'd be the best person to backport BIP68 to 0.11.
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:30:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i will take the approach of not keeping the mempool consistent and checking sequence values in the mining code, which will probably not make much of an effect on the already absurdly slow mining code
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:30:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> thats why 7187 was separate, that won't be backported to 0.11
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:30:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> plenty miners have upgraded to 0.12 fwiw
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:30:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> well pools*
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:31:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok. i'll work on that
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:31:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the other path would be to wait for 0.13, then only backport to 0.12, but then you'll have to wait 6 months :p
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:31:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;Luke-Jr&gt;</span> &gt;_&lt;
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:31:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> nice joke there :-P
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:31:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well not exactly 6 anymore but ok...
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:32:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't think it's realistic no
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:32:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think we can do 9/68/112/113 soon
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:32:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> aim for 0.13 would be july
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:33:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> agreed!
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:33:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I hope so!
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:33:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I also believe so. 68/112/113 are done from my side, morcos wants to add more RPC tests which is fine.
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:33:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> did you ever reply to my comment on block version = 4
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:33:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> there are NONE!
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:33:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> any plans to remove the default version crap out of primitives?
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:33:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes there are. same standard as for BIP65
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:33:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> yes, see bip9
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:34:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> it was needed in combination with the warning logic
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:34:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> see #7648
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:34:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it may not be needed anymore with imoroved logic
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:34:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> i saw, and i agree, BIP65 made it out withotu adequate tests
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:35:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> right now #7575 will revert back to version 4 blocks after the first soft fork activates, if no other soft forks are in the queue
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:35:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> bip65 had rpc tests from petertodd?!
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:35:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i assume that is unintentional?
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:35:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I would disagree they were not adaquet, you can always have more sure.
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:35:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> bip65 had RPC tests.
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:35:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> that seems correct to mr
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:35:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> oh, i didn't realize that!
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:35:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> huh?  correct as in you wanted that?
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:36:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the old version is used to indicate "no versionbits"
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:36:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> bip68/112/113 have the p2p RPC tests in #7648
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:36:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes, otherwise the version is ambiguous based on what software miners use, ignoring deploymemts
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:36:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> which the warning logic can't deal with
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:36:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it must be absolute "these deployments -&gt; this nVersion"
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:37:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> all prior soft forks required minors to upgrade
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:37:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> miners :p
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:37:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> lol
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:37:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> minors can always get a fake ID
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:37:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> what i would like to do is with this first soft fork, require nVersion &gt; 4
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:37:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> why?
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:37:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> why?
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:37:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> then we can warn on anything that is not 001...  unless it is &lt;=4 which we know are invalid
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:38:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> that seems consistent with how we've done other soft forks
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:38:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> there is an expected version number, unknown differences are warned on
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:38:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> so old software versions warn.
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:38:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> and continue warning.
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:38:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yes, old software versions are incapable of noticing transient changes
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:39:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> thats why we need to rework alerts/warning to correctly identify them now
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:39:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in fact if you turned off a 0.12 node for a couple months
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:39:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and then turned it back on after all these SF's activated
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:39:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> you would have no idea
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:39:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> even if you looked at your debug logs
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:39:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> b/c the warning logic doesn't run in IBD
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:40:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i feel like that makes it a requirement that we permanently increase the version number
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:40:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> agreed
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:40:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> wth are you talking about?
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:40:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> who?
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:41:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> I don't follow
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:41:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> me?  which part?
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:41:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> versionbits is deterministic based on the chain histotu
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:41:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes 0.12 doesn't have version bits
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:41:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> 0.12.0
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:41:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> after versionbits deployment, all block versions would be &gt; 4
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:41:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ah
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:41:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> he's talking about software which doesn't have versionbits.
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:41:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> oh, now i get it
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:41:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> sorry
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:41:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> thats what i'm trying to say, thats not how its written
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:42:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so increase to 5 after the first vb deployment?
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:42:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> no no no
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:42:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> why not increase to 001...?
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> not 5
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:42:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> consensus rule is &gt;= 5 i guess
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:42:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> just &gt; 4, but you expect to see 001
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:43:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> consensus &gt;=4, but by default set 001...000....?
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:43:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> &gt;4
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:43:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:43:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> but you should see it in the debug log? https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L2464
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:44:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Agree that we should also warn in IDB (but low prio IMO).
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:44:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that code doesn't run during initialblockdownload
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:44:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> the assumption is if you see something that starts with 001 you think you know whats happening and you're unknown activation detector can alert you with specific information
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:44:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Then lets improve that and BP.
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:44:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and if you see soemthing that doesn't start with 001  such as a 5  or  a 110...
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:45:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> thats what we're doing , but we can't retroactively change old code
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:45:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> 110... would be treated as negative, no? because for some reason signed types were used
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:45:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> then you assume that someone is doing something you really don't understand
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:45:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Sure... we might not be capable of warning for the next SF.
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:45:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> sure i mean 010
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:45:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> there is already 011 on the network too
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:46:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> exactly, and we should be warning about that (and we are now) b/c its changes our software doesn't understand
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:46:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:46:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and if &gt; 50/100 blocks then we turn that warning into an alert
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:47:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Agree. But that raises also the question how to deploy an alert... debug.log? Yes. No.
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:48:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> see scroll back before meeting
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:48:29 </span><span class="nka">* jonasschnelli</span> <span class="ac">has only a 500 lines scrollback &gt;_&lt;</span>
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:48:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> so agreed that we should increase version number?  should i make a new BIP for that?  and we'll just soft fork it in at same time, or add to existing BIP
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:49:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> consensus or not?
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:49:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> consensus rule that nVersion must be &gt;= 5.
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:50:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> why consensus?
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:50:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> confused
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:51:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> before or after versionbits activation?
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:51:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;CodeShark&gt;</span> still don't follow
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:51:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> well i suppose it doesn't have to be a consensus rule...
<a name="l-279"></a><span class="tm">19:51:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">CodeShark:</span> with the first SF that activates
<a name="l-280"></a><span class="tm">19:51:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> but i think its more clear to me that it doesn't have problems if it is a consensus rule
<a name="l-281"></a><span class="tm">19:51:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> b/c thats how the other ones worked
<a name="l-282"></a><span class="tm">19:51:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> making it consensus would cause gratitious orphaning, which we were generally trying to avoid in the design of segwit.
<a name="l-283"></a><span class="tm">19:51:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> this will be before segwit
<a name="l-284"></a><span class="tm">19:52:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i prefer not introducing new consensus logic, especially when the only argument for it is better guarantees for warnings
<a name="l-285"></a><span class="tm">19:52:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> yes thats the only difference i see.  is that now we somehow can't warn on version = 4 blocks
<a name="l-286"></a><span class="tm">19:52:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and if it's not consnesus, we can say bip9 miners without active rollouts use 001000...
<a name="l-287"></a><span class="tm">19:53:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I like 001000 in that it would encourage visualization tools to parse the bitfield instead of just displaying an integer.
<a name="l-288"></a><span class="tm">19:53:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-289"></a><span class="tm">19:53:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> if its not a consensus rule, you can't be SURE that old nodes will be warned that the rules have changed... perhaps thats not worth worrying about
<a name="l-290"></a><span class="tm">19:54:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> miners can already cause total network forks
<a name="l-291"></a><span class="tm">19:54:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> That was my initial understanding that the new version would be 00100..0 when no sfs are being deployed
<a name="l-292"></a><span class="tm">19:54:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> its just cleaner to me
<a name="l-293"></a><span class="tm">19:54:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> are we worried that they can bypass a warning mechanism?
<a name="l-294"></a><span class="tm">19:54:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> no
<a name="l-295"></a><span class="tm">19:56:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ok i guess. i'm ok with not making it a consensus rule..  but just seems weird to me...  i feel like we're transitioning from an old system to a new system, and the transition should conform to the old system
<a name="l-296"></a><span class="tm">19:57:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Lets wrap the metting now and talk more about warning after. Unless there are any other subject to squeek in at the end?
<a name="l-297"></a><span class="tm">19:57:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">meeting:</span> 3 minutes to go
<a name="l-298"></a><span class="tm">19:57:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but as long as we make the default 00100  then i think its just theoretical concerns
<a name="l-299"></a><span class="tm">19:57:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yeah
<a name="l-300"></a><span class="tm">19:58:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
