19:02:22 <BlueMatt> #startmeeting
19:02:22 <lightningbot> Meeting started Thu May 19 19:02:22 2016 UTC.  The chair is BlueMatt. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
19:02:22 <lightningbot> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
19:02:29 <BlueMatt> topics?
19:03:10 <luke-jr> VB GBT :P
19:03:48 <BlueMatt> who's writing the fixes for that?
19:04:14 <sipa> i am at the zurich bitcoin meetup
19:04:18 <luke-jr> me https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7935
19:05:33 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: so it looks like its in the review queue?
19:05:41 <luke-jr> yeah
19:05:57 <luke-jr> but it's fairly important to get released before CSV activates
19:06:22 <sipa> csv won't activate soon
19:06:52 <BlueMatt> it might, but, indeed, there seems to be some meme about CSV not being useful without segwit :/
19:06:56 <luke-jr> could be within a month, no? and we need time for rc testing etc
19:07:13 <luke-jr> hmm
19:07:33 <morcos> how important is it for us to get CSV activated soon?
19:07:48 <luke-jr> I don't know any urgent need for it tbh
19:08:04 <BlueMatt> dont think its /criticial/, but it would be very nice for a few folks
19:08:04 <sipa> the demand for csv is for supporting htlcz
19:08:57 <luke-jr> htlcz?
19:08:59 <morcos> but doesn't it seem like segwit is such a big additional improvement that its not worth trying to push for CSV adoption now and instead saving our energy for segwit adoption?
19:09:03 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: s/z/s/
19:09:20 <luke-jr> ah
19:09:58 <BlueMatt> morcos: it would be very nice if it didnt activate at the same time, but while there are some use-cases, its true, I'm not aware of anyone clamoring for csv RIGHT NOW
19:10:35 <morcos> BlueMatt: just for the purposes of having a live VB activation before segwit?
19:10:41 <BlueMatt> it is kinda dissapointing that miners dont care enough to upgrade, since there were other bugfixes there, but whatever
19:10:54 <luke-jr> I got the (mistaken?) impression BlueMatt and gmaxwell were upset CSV was taking long, so I assumed it was getting pressure on
19:10:56 <morcos> that doesn't seem so critical to me, now that we've had so many testnet type activations
19:11:01 <BlueMatt> morcos: yea, that would be nice too
19:11:30 <morcos> i agree its disappointing, but i'm not sure its something thats worth worrying about or doing anything about.  lets just roll out the next great thing
19:11:34 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: no, I think gmaxwell would very much like it to move forward faster, and I am dissapointed that its not, but as morcos points out, its not critical
19:11:42 <sipa> what could be do to improve adoption?
19:11:56 <luke-jr> sipa: 0.11 backport would get Eligius
19:12:02 <BlueMatt> sipa: not much, a few folks were bugging the 2 big miners left
19:12:51 <luke-jr> right now solo depends on VB GBT, and Eligius depends on either 0.11 backport or 0.12 CPFP testing/review
19:13:20 <sipa> luke-jr: i'll review the patches tomorrow
19:13:22 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: I'm working on the cpfp review
19:13:45 <BlueMatt> next topic?
19:15:13 <luke-jr> should we make specific plans for the weekend?
19:15:23 <luke-jr> or maybe jonasschnelli already has that planned
19:15:42 <BlueMatt> I think thats already mostly planned/most folks arent here/there is an email thread
19:15:55 <sipa> yes
19:16:23 <luke-jr> oh, has anyone looked at the OpenSSL exploits?
19:16:27 <jonasschnelli> I haven't planed a schedule on what to talk about or on what to work. I think this should be done together.
19:16:39 <jonasschnelli> Any I guess 20 people can't work on the same thing. We might need to form groups.
19:18:24 <sipa> if there are no further topics, i suggest closing the meeting soon
19:19:05 <luke-jr> OpenSSL exploits could be a topic. IIRC there was an uncertainty of the risk of the last batch
19:19:05 <BlueMatt> sounds good to me
19:19:15 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: yes, someone should look at that
19:19:36 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: you feel like digging into it?
19:19:42 <luke-jr> if we're going to release 0.12.2 with the VB GBT stuff, might as well bump OpenSSL with it?
19:19:53 <sipa> that sou ds reasonable
19:19:59 <luke-jr> BlueMatt: I don't feel competent in crypto, but I could dig a little I guess
19:19:59 <sipa> sounds
19:20:27 <BlueMatt> luke-jr: indeed, if we do another release (I think we'd need a quorum here to discuss that), then we should bump openssl
19:22:05 <luke-jr> guess nothing else to discuss?
19:24:06 <BlueMatt> #endmeeting