<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot`&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Feb 11 19:00:45 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot`&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:01:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well thanks I guess :)
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:01:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> topic proposals?
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:01:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Plans for RC37?
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:01:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> last meeting we had as action items ACTION: review and test ACK #7184 and #6564 (wumpus, 19:20:09)
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:02:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> almost gmaxwell
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:02:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;bittrex-richie&gt;</span> ok.. we'll see what happens if i empty this awllet out
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:03:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> If cfields is around I'd like to hear an update about how his networking stack reworking is going.
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:03:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rc4 and rc5 were just tagged in quick succession, so we'll skip executables for rc4
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:04:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> i'm hacking furiously trying to get it cleaned up. I've rewritten much of it a dozen or so times, but i've never considered it to be in a state where it's a good starting point for review.
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:05:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> rc6 to rcâˆž-1 can hopefully be skipped and this is finally final :)
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:05:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> as i've been saying for ages now, hope to have it ready for review in the next week or so.
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:05:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">P2P code refactor</span>
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:06:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes I think it's time to seriously look at that now
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:06:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> agree
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:06:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> okay, -- sounds totally reasonable. I was worrying a bit that you've gone heads down on it long enough that the result might be big enough to make reviewing really hard; ... but if you're spending all that time redoing it rather than adding more code, then it should be no issue. :)
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:07:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> for a bit more info: i've whittled it down to little more than a replacement of the current networking threads. message parsing/processing/etc is intact for the sake of easier review/merge. I have refactors for those elsewhere, but as next steps
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:07:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;_maddy&gt;</span> Where do I find the format of the blk0001.dat file in source code?
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:07:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> the time for something invasive like that to be merged is at the beginning of the release window, so around now, otherwise we'll probably have to postpone it to 0.14
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:07:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> wumpus / gmaxwell / sipa: understood
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:08:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> okay clear, next topic?
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:08:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> BIP112/68/113 plans?
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:08:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">BIP68 review</span>
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:09:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> is maaku here?
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:09:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> how is the review of the BIP68 pulls going?
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:09:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> sdaftuar found some more mistakes, i need to fix those, can do this afternoon
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:09:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> (sorry, wasn't able to look at it much myself this week)
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:09:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but there is other work that needs to be done, such as the soft fork logic
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:09:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, yes let's focus on the mempool only stuf now
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:10:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i think i disagree
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:10:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think that's quite enough
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:10:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> why?
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:10:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> soft fork needs better unit tests IMO
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:10:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the GetMedianTimePast behaviour is already in, right?
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:10:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> several months ago sdaftuar found a mistake in the mempool code only be thinking about how the soft fork logic would apply
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:11:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, but I mean the softfork code won't be considered until the mempool-only enforcement is in for a while
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:11:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> thinking about it can't hurt, sure
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:11:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> not necessary, its already non standard
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:11:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> tx version 2
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:11:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> the softfork logic is not going to be merged with the policy-only implementations, we've never done it, why change now?
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:11:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well that's completely different than what was discussed last week ...
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:11:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> specially when we would hopefully deploy it with bip9...
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:12:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> sorry , i don't think i was in the meeting last week
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:12:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> BIP113 needed mempool deployment before being safe as a softfork
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:12:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i thought i skimmed the conversation but i must have missed that
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:12:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but BIP68 and BIP112 don't, afaik
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:12:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> introducing the softfork is going to require much more scrutiny, and tests, as petertodd says
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:12:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in any case, i don't care if we merge the mempool code first and it might indeed make sense to do so, i just think we should look at the soft fork logic
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:13:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> how about we merge mempool logic in master only
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:13:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes I'm here
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:13:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> last week my hope was that at least bip68 would finally be merged today or before today...
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:13:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> you mean mempool-only right?
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:13:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> i was wondering whether you were going to take over BIP 68 etc.. stuff again..  in particular the soft fork logic for it.
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:14:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and then backport mempool+softfork to 0.12.x when the softfork is ready
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:14:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> by "soft fork logic" - i assume you mean something like bip9? I mean, the IsSuperMajority() mechanism is just a few lines of code
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:14:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> agree
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:14:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> of course, and I meant on master only as well (we cannot backport for 12.1 until we actually have 12.0, right?)
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:14:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> absolutely
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:14:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yeah
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:14:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> we really need to migrate to a BIP9 style way of doing soft-forks...
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:14:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok i guess thats not unreasonable... if there is a change needed to the consensus logic in the mempool brought out by the softfork code , it doesn't matter if its only in master
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:15:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> yes, but that needs usable code...
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:15:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> consensus logic that is (re)used by the mempool only version
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:16:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I intended to rebase the CSV code against your BIP 68 branch once that merges
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:16:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok, well i think 7184 can be merged after i fix sdaftuars comments, they are relatively straight forward, i'll leave as a separate commit and maybe a couple of people that reviewed prior can just ack and we can squash on merge
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:17:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> BIP 68 hasn't really been reviewed with a mindset of consensus validation
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:17:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> oh, topic suggestion: squash/rebase/merge recommendations
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:17:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> yes, thats why i thought you were working on it again.  but all of 68,112,113 need soft fork logic at some point...
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:17:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> i have
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:17:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> (I know because serious bugs were found in the enforcement long after ACKs of 6312)
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:17:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> thats my point, some of us have been trying to review it with that mindset but it would be easier to do so if we see the soft fork logic
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:18:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> some by sipa some by sdaftuar, thank you
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:18:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> great! next action review/test/merge #6564 after we finally merge #7148 ?
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:18:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> I did that with BIP68, and quickly came to the conclusion that it needed better unittests for consensus validation :)
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:18:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> imho we should merge BIP 68 policy-only, and open another PR with the soft-fork enforcement, just to get another round of ACKs specifically with an eye towards that
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:18:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I mean, it will need rebase first
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:19:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">review/test/merge #7148 and #6564</span>
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:19:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> yeah ok, as long as we are not backporting/releasing until we do that other PR, thats fine with me
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:19:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it's 7184, and we should hold off on 6564 till maaku rebases
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:19:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> why that condition? we can backport as soon as we have a 12.0, no?
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:19:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yeah the point is there's confusion about who has reviewed with an eye towards enforcement, and that's just delaying everything
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:20:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> i would backport only as soon as there is softfork logic too
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:20:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yeah, it makes only sense to backport something complete
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:20:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> people are happy with 7184 (modulo some last minute fixes I saw go through), if we can merge that asap I'd be happy
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:20:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> is the plan to only backport to 0.12?
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:20:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's focus on getting the damn thing merged in master, this has been dragging along for too long
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:20:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I mean, I plan to backport it to https://github.com/jtimon/bitcoin/tree/backports-0.12 soon after it gets merged
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:20:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> (and I'll immediately rebase 6564 thereafter)
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:20:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> why not merge it as policy only for 12.01?
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:21:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> when the soft-fork code is merged, it will be back ported to the two most recent releases, as per our recently adopted support policy
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:21:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> because we need to make sure it's correct first
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:21:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> what's the point?
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:21:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> master is a good place to test things
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:21:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> BIP 68 and 112 don't need to be back ported until enforcement
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:21:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> can always be adapted, or reverted there
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:21:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> a policy only softfork merge for an already non-standard softfork will disrupt deployment of the feature if it needs to change.
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:21:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> *until soft-fork deployment
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:21:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I dont like doing that on a release version
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:22:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> having it ready? if it's not ready for 12.1 at least users will have it as policy-only...what's the reason not to do it?
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:22:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (because if the behavior changes we may need to first policy out the old behavior before the soft-fork can begin.)
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:22:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> having it as policy only has no use
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:22:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> except testing
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:22:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right sipa
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:22:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> it's not that it has no use, it has potential anti-use.
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:22:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok, so to summarize.  i will add a small commit that address sdaftuars bugs within an hour of meeting end.  a couple people will review/ACK and we can merge this thing today
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:23:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> then we'll leave in master until we write the soft fork logic
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:23:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> maybe that should be the next topic
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:23:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> mhmm, I hadn't thought about the potential anti-use...
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:23:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> what should that look like and who is doing it
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:23:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">soft fork logic</span>
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:24:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> (I'm fine with policy only for things where were quite sure that the logic is final, but are only delaying deployment e.g. because of other soft-forks in flight-- in this case, it should just be done as soon as it's final)
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:24:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> depends on bip9, proposed topic bip9 implementations and plan forward
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:24:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i'm sorry that i volunteered and withdrew from bip9 work, but i'm trying to find things to do that it is easier to do head down and not lose concentration.
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:25:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> imho the issue of bip9 vs ISM should be determined by what is ready at the time that we are preparing the soft-fork enforcement code
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:26:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> so the question really is, when is the BIP 68/112(/113?) soft-fork going out?
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:26:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> the issue is there are so many outstanding potential soft forks, that if each keeps waiting for the others, that might delay them all.  and if we just decided to do BIP 9 we'd stop having that problem
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:26:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> don't forget segwit
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:26:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and don't forget we're far more likely now to have soft forks that we think are going to activate but maybe struggle to do so
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:27:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I don't think the delay argument stands up for uncontroversial soft-forks
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:27:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes, BIP 9 still makes a lot of sense.
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:27:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> granted, we've got code actually written for what, two of them basically? (csv stuff and segwit stuff)
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:27:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I don't want to stop anyone from do it, but I'm considering to write my own implementation, resuing some code from both CodeShark's and Rusty's implementation
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:28:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> or BIP 68 could be viewed spearately from 112/113 actually
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:28:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> if CSV is ready next week, we can do ISV. and we can start segwit deployment via bip9 even if CSV deployment isn't finished
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:28:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> *ISM
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:28:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> true, although even then, you *can* do concurrent ISM soft forks
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:29:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> My opinion is only that we shouldn't be holding up a valuable soft-fork due only to delay in bip9 development.
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:29:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> maaku ack
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:29:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:29:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> only if they're additive.
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:29:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> that doesn't mean we don't want bip9 asap as well though
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:29:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> Fortunately I don't think we're actually faced with a hold up question there.
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:29:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes I think that's clear, we can use only what is there, if there is no BIP9 implmentation ready then we can't use it
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:29:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> you mean, only if they don't conflict with each other?
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:30:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> there's no super hurry, but we can't hold up all softforks until BIP9 if there is no clear idea when it will be ready
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:31:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> sure.
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:31:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we should have a BIP9 implementation before we can even talk about delaying things for it
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:31:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> ^ that.
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:31:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yeah
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:31:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I didn't knew that morcos had stopped working on it
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:31:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> and we're not concerned about an ISM soft fork activating too early because of miners runnign another implementation?
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:32:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> we should have *one* bip9 implementation ;) problem is we have 2 (soon to be 3)
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:32:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> never started, but i got too depressed.
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:32:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> i don't mind trying to write one myself :p
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:32:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> (don't worry, i have enough other things to do...)
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:32:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> it's more about having one that is ready to merge, having 100 half-finished implementations isn't going to help :)
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:32:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> s/ready to merge/merged/
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:33:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> heh, I'm gonna have to actualy write my pseudo-versionbits implementation - the one that's about two lines of code :)
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:33:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> what is the main problem with bip9 implementations?
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:33:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> thankfully CSV is non-controversial. if there was significant uptake on a hard fork block.nVersion voting, we can get those miners to patch CSV support in
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:33:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> why do they peter out?
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:33:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> that's fine (not that you got depressed), I was just pointing out that I found out today
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:33:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> (actually scratch that, partially bad logic because they leave the network)
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:33:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> CodeShark's was a ton of code that seemed to do a dozen unrelated things, and rusty's never had the caching layer on top to make it efficient
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:34:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> frankly, bip9 is stateful and requires a bunch of stuff added to the database, which means there's a whole bunch of things to get right and test, among other issues
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:34:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ok thanks
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:34:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> nope, no database changes needed
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:34:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> huh? maybe I'm describing it misleadingly, but you have to store flags in the chainstate
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:35:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right, you have to somehow keep track of the current flags
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:35:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> which *is* a relatively big change, and has a lot of possible design space and testing to consider
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:35:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> my idea was to have a versionbits state that you compute for every block % 2016, compute once, and remain immutable after that
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:35:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> everything can be efficiently computed from that
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:36:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> and recompute at startup
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:36:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> anyway, off topic i guess
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:36:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ah, so you can get away without actually storing it... clever
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:36:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> does that need 2016 blocks stored?
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:36:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> ok, an in-memory std::map database ;)
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:37:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> aka cache
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:37:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> no, a map of size (mapBlockIndex.size() / 2016)
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:37:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:38:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'd like to bring up the topic of squash/rebase recommendations (there was some recent discussion about that on the bip68 PR)
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:38:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic  </span><span class="topicline">squash/rebase recommendations</span>
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:38:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> can i suggest that we make some sort of decision as to how to move forward on the soft forks first
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:38:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> its ok if that decision is ISM for now
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:38:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> whenever ready, we see what is ready; if BIP9 implementation is ready, use that, otherwise use ISM
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:39:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I believe decision is "no other choice than ISM until bip9 is merged"
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:39:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> we need a volunteer to implement, do we have one?
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:39:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> what do you mean whenever ready
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:39:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I pretty much thin kthat was what said in the BIP68 topic says it all regarding this topic: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7184#issuecomment-182594295
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:39:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> perhaps we'll need to patch ISM to be nVersion &amp; nFlags
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:39:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> if there's no other volunteer, I think I can do it
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:40:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> &lt;jtimon&gt; I believe decision is "no other choice than ISM until bip9 is merged" ACK
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:41:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:41:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> squash topic?
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:41:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> do you feel we're done with softforks?
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:42:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ha ha ...   yes?
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:42:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:43:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so, maaku: maybe this wasn't clear from my comment on the morcos' BIP68 PR, but I didn't mean to say "this has to be squashed into a single commit, no matter what" - there were just a list of several fixup and nit addressing commits, and i don't believe those belong in the final merged history
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:43:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but i'd like to hear what your opinion is there
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:43:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think that's clear
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:43:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> my biggest concern with squashing/rebasing is knowing WHEN to do it.  its easier for future reviewers to do it but if other people are still in the midst of reviewing its annoying.
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:44:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> commits have a logical function, you want to tell a story how you changed the code that is easy to review, not necessarily your chronological order of changes
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:44:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we need a local review script, that stores which commit/tree you've reviewed, and later on, shows you the differences compared to what has been reviewed before :)
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:45:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yes!
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:45:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if you have tons of 'fix issue X' where X was introduced in the same pull, that's not useful
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:45:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> unfortunately there will be cases where "easy to review" is to squash, and cases where "easy to review" is to just add more commits
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:45:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:45:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> sure, and mostly that's up to the developer to make that judgement
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:46:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> my position is the same as torvalds regarding squashing and rebasing in git: fine to do up until the point of submitting a PR.
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:46:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and also depending on what is changed, e.g. if you make a move+change pull it's clear that that's better as two commits
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:46:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> It can be worth to review the changes in two separate commits (e.g. MOVE-ONLY and a simple change) than in one merged commit (which is perfectly OK for merging). The question is when to move from separate commits and squash.
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:46:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> exactly
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:46:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, and also, that's likely to depend on who is reviewing - more likely for a fresh reviewer to find a squash easier
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:46:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I think 7184 should have just built on top of its reviewed precessors during development, there's always time to squash later
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:46:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> i think it's always valuable to keep moveonly changes and others separate
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:46:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> few people if ever read the git history. far more benefit is had by having commit id's not change and use merge commits
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:47:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> it would would be 30 commits now, half of which were undoing changes in earlier ones
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:47:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yes that's awful
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:47:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> at least before merge those should be squashed
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:47:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> and now (or a few weeks ago) you could have squashed, I really don't see the problem
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:47:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> rewriting history breaks linkage between what the review record of ACKS say, and what actually gets in the repo
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:48:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> sipa, for file renames, sure.
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:48:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> with the commit ids in the replies you can still compare the trees
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:48:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> i recently did an ACK on a tree id rather than a commit, which doesn't break with a squash
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:48:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> yes i think thats the key.  a rebase/squash could maybe be accompied with more detailed information of which ACKS are still valid or something..
<a name="l-218"></a><span class="tm">19:49:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> if you have those commits.
<a name="l-219"></a><span class="tm">19:49:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> github has them
<a name="l-220"></a><span class="tm">19:49:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> should we all switch to what sipa did going forward, ack the tree id?
<a name="l-221"></a><span class="tm">19:49:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> nah, I don't know
<a name="l-222"></a><span class="tm">19:49:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> worth noting that even ACKing with commit ids isn't sufficient for security purposes, so we're still trusting maintainers not to merge malicious stuff, which means trusting them to fairly interpret how squashes interact with previous ACK's is more reasonable
<a name="l-223"></a><span class="tm">19:49:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> only the people who looked at former state of the PR care about that
<a name="l-224"></a><span class="tm">19:49:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> I don't think we need to do that, simply because github saves the information for us in the form of old commits
<a name="l-225"></a><span class="tm">19:49:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't look forward to teaching everyone that
<a name="l-226"></a><span class="tm">19:50:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> the only time I reviewed 7184 is through one branch that morcos prepared rebasing 7184 on top of maaku's because that was simpler for me
<a name="l-227"></a><span class="tm">19:50:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> how do you recover the tree id once there are no commits left in the available branches that create that tree?
<a name="l-228"></a><span class="tm">19:50:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it's also kinda inconvenient, especially for utACK's done on github
<a name="l-229"></a><span class="tm">19:50:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> in any case, i think what works best for wumpus/sipa shoudl carry some weight here and then to the extent that other people do more heavy lifting on the code base, the process can evolve.  but if wumpus is the one who has to decide everytime if the ACK's are valid
<a name="l-230"></a><span class="tm">19:50:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> yes
<a name="l-231"></a><span class="tm">19:50:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> lets do what makes sense for him
<a name="l-232"></a><span class="tm">19:50:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> i don't understand
<a name="l-233"></a><span class="tm">19:50:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> this process is basically relying on the fact that github acts as a trusted repository of past tree state. i don't like that
<a name="l-234"></a><span class="tm">19:50:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> well, as long as we're putting our ACK's on github itself w/o signatures, it's mostly a trusted repo anyway
<a name="l-235"></a><span class="tm">19:51:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if you really want to be paranoid then you should also sign your ACKs, as github posts can be edited
<a name="l-236"></a><span class="tm">19:51:30 </span><span class="nka">* petertodd</span> <span class="ac">wonders if anyone is systematically saving + timestamping github state for /bitcoin/bitcoin</span>
<a name="l-237"></a><span class="tm">19:51:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> feel free do do so, but I'm not going to make it a rule
<a name="l-238"></a><span class="tm">19:51:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> yes, iwilcox is
<a name="l-239"></a><span class="tm">19:51:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> the issue isn't so much trust as process and standard practice. it's something that only works with a trusted, central party, which means the same behavior doesn't work so well in other contexts
<a name="l-240"></a><span class="tm">19:51:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> looks like btcdrak is taking screenshots ;-)
<a name="l-241"></a><span class="tm">19:52:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> https://github.com/zw/bitcoin-gh-meta
<a name="l-242"></a><span class="tm">19:52:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ha, nice
<a name="l-243"></a><span class="tm">19:52:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ah cool - should figure out how to timestamp that!
<a name="l-244"></a><span class="tm">19:52:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I think the general rule should be "whatever is easier to read and review", but of course sounds like some vague software engineering recommendation "things should be done the right way"...
<a name="l-245"></a><span class="tm">19:52:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> or if github ever decides to clean house and purge old, unreferenced tree states, our historical record would be screwed
<a name="l-246"></a><span class="tm">19:53:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> it even come with the ghrip script so you can do your own version, if you don't trust him :)
<a name="l-247"></a><span class="tm">19:53:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> why do you care about the historical state, if you're not one of the people who reviewed it in a non-final state?
<a name="l-248"></a><span class="tm">19:53:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I think we're moving away from the topic
<a name="l-249"></a><span class="tm">19:54:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> any other topic? only few minutes to go
<a name="l-250"></a><span class="tm">19:54:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> yes it sounds vague, but in complex subjects like this it's very hard to give exact procedures that makes sense in every case, if even possible
<a name="l-251"></a><span class="tm">19:54:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> what is the status of BIP62 and namely handling High S?
<a name="l-252"></a><span class="tm">19:54:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> retracted
<a name="l-253"></a><span class="tm">19:54:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> BIP62 is dead
<a name="l-254"></a><span class="tm">19:54:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> yes, but any future plans?
<a name="l-255"></a><span class="tm">19:54:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> segwit
<a name="l-256"></a><span class="tm">19:54:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> for at east High S?
<a name="l-257"></a><span class="tm">19:55:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-258"></a><span class="tm">19:55:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> yes, I'm afraid vague recommendations and examples is the best you can do with many of these things
<a name="l-259"></a><span class="tm">19:55:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> update on segwit prev-block-proofs: I'm deep in the rabbit hole of writing an article/paper/blog-post on fraud proofs, along with what data structures work for them
<a name="l-260"></a><span class="tm">19:55:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> AKA, saving a herd of goats :)
<a name="l-261"></a><span class="tm">19:55:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> *shaving
<a name="l-262"></a><span class="tm">19:56:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> great!
<a name="l-263"></a><span class="tm">19:56:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> for high-S specfically, it still may be soft-forked out at some point-- though with it non-standard I see no reason to rush into it.
<a name="l-264"></a><span class="tm">19:56:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> I would like to work with you on that
<a name="l-265"></a><span class="tm">19:56:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> not the article, the fraud proofs and prev-block proofs
<a name="l-266"></a><span class="tm">19:56:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;maaku&gt;</span> i've done my own explorations on that
<a name="l-267"></a><span class="tm">19:57:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">maaku:</span> cool, be good to compare notes then
<a name="l-268"></a><span class="tm">19:57:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> gmaxwell, people ask for it and I think that non-standardness is not enough for their use cases...
<a name="l-269"></a><span class="tm">19:57:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> maaku, petertodd: perhaps you should also talk about the commitment structure
<a name="l-270"></a><span class="tm">19:57:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> what I'm writing is actually very heavily based on my explorations for fintech clients, e.g. my proofchains work
<a name="l-271"></a><span class="tm">19:57:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">fraud proofs</span>
<a name="l-272"></a><span class="tm">19:58:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> just inhibiting highS is not enough for any usecase I've ever seen expressed.
<a name="l-273"></a><span class="tm">19:58:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i think that can be discussed outside of the meeting
<a name="l-274"></a><span class="tm">19:58:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> article is shaping up to mainly be an ideal redesign of bitcoin from scratch, to serve as example for comparison
<a name="l-275"></a><span class="tm">19:58:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-276"></a><span class="tm">19:58:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ok, closing the meeting then
<a name="l-277"></a><span class="tm">19:58:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> fisnish meeting?
<a name="l-278"></a><span class="tm">19:58:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
