<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Mar 17 19:00:37 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ohai
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:01:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, that will be first morcos, anyone else with topic suggestions?
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:02:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we had an action item last time to review the backports for r BIP68 and 112
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:02:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">c: Scheduling the first BIP 9 sort fork for BIPs 68, 112, 113</span>
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:02:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> that wasn't the whole topic
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:02:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i think merging is an action item, not a topic :)
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:03:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> how happy is everyone with 7575?
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:03:25 </span><span class="nka">* sipa</span> <span class="ac">happy</span>
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:03:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:03:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well if you want to discuss 7575 that's fine with me too
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:03:32 </span><span class="nka">* btcdrak</span> <span class="ac">happy</span>
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:04:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> well its the blocker on the schedule
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:04:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">merge #7575</span>
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:04:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i'm happy with it as well
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:04:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok so then we just need to adequately review the backports, and we can discuss release?
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:04:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> what is the start date?  is april 1st too soon?
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:05:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I see it got a lot of new acks last day
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:05:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> thanks to all of sdaftuar's tests :)
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:05:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i had suggested that the backports be put all together in 1 PR, but i'm not sure thats actually what you guys would prefer.  although i think thats the safest way to test them.
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:05:43</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> (well 1 pr for 0.11 and 1 for 0.12)
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:05:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:05:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the moment miners uograde to a release with 7575 in it, the warning.logic will trigger on old nodes
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:06:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> Assuming 7575 is merged, the softfork deployment code is in #7648. morcos and I have backported the mempool stuff
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:06:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> I think it makes sense - you can always separate out commits
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:06:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> even if it only has softforks with a start time in the guture
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:06:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> future
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:06:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> so we shouldn't put it too far in the future
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:06:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> so will you create a pull that backports it all together for 0.12 (including 7575) and i'll do for 0.11
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:06:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> the mempool backports are all done, they only need verification that the cherry-picks are correct
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:07:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> okay, good
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:07:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> ok
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:07:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> who has reviewed https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7648?
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:08:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no one yet, I think
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:08:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> this is built on #7575 and has additional RPC tests that exercise the BIP9 softfork process and the BIP enforcements for 68,112 and 113
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:08:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i think we should announce the start date and bit number on the -dev list as soon as we've agreed on it, so that Classic and other implementations can implement it as well
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:09:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> It probably better reviewable after 7575 is merged
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">review #7648 after #7575 is merged</span>
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> the final version of the versionbits BIP should similarly be announced i think?
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:09:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> I'll rebase 7648 after 7575 is merged
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:10:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think we don't need to announce the merge,.. but the release/deployment.
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:10:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> back in 3 mins
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:11:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes the start date and bit number certainly needs to be announced
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:11:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> and we need to plan the release date to be able to set the start date.
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:12:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> morcos and I will have the backport PRs ready to go for 0.12 and 0.11. We've done most of the work already.
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:12:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> great!
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:13:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> release date is not entirely predictable, we do want a RC cycle
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:13:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> really, the only holdup is review of #7648. Once that's merged final, the backports are as good as done. They'd only need to be verified for correctness.
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:13:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> maybe set the date to may 1st?
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:13:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I'd suggest moving the start date to April 15th
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:13:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> oh
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:13:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:13:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> may 1st sounds good to me
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:14:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> is that the start date for BIP9?
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:14:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> better to leave some time for issues, which will always arise
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:14:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> so BIP 9 itself is up to date in the BIP repo, I guess that's what matters most for other implementations, not our code readiness
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:14:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> others may not be aware of that though
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:14:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> as it's been in flux until recently
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:15:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I'm happy to send the follow up to my original email with these announcements.  Perhaps we should update BIP's 68,112,113 with the soft fork info
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:15:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we want to announce out intention to go ahead with a deployment based on bip9, for 68/112/113, with a given start date
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:15:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> BIP9 text is uptodate with the implementation
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:15:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> good point about updating BIP68/112/113
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:16:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:16:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> OK I'll do that
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:16:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> so is the BIP9 start date May 1st?
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:16:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> that language is confusing.  the date for the first BIP9 soft fork is May 1st
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:16:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> May 1st is the startdate for the CSV deployment
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:16:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yep
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:16:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> (or whatever we're calling it)
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:17:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> once we have code running anywhere in production with a given start date, that date cannot be postponed anymore
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:17:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> or there is a fork risk
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:17:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> CSV deployment makes sense to me, it captures most of it, perhaps it would be helpful to add a comment next to the deployment, which BIPS it implements
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:17:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> moving the start time back is possible
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:17:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> yeah, it's already called CSV deployment in the code.
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:18:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, so aim is may 1st
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:18:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> ok so action point is update BIP68/112/113 deployment section
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:18:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's make sure to review everything necessary as soon as possible so that it can be merged as soon as possible and we can do the release as soon as possible
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:18:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> I think it makes sense to include that we Bitcoin Core will have a release well in advance of the start date implementing the fork
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:19:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> regarding choosing the bit, I guess bit 0 makes sense.
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:19:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> just please don't choose bit 28
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:20:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> or 13 :)
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:20:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> The Chinese like 8
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:20:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> ha
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:20:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but yes it makes sense just to allocate 0
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:21:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> easier to keep track if they're simply dealt out in order
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:21:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> what is the block number classic uses?
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:21:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> BIP109 uses one of the top 3 ::sigh::
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:22:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/bitcoinclassic/blob/develop/src/primitives/block.h#L13
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:22:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> top bit 010, so it's not actually part of the BIP9 spec
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:23:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> huh, it looks like they use 001 and then use bit 28 to signal their hard fork
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:23:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> yup
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:23:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> TESTDUMMY!
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:23:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> er
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:23:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ;-)
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:23:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> so that works out fine then?
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:23:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> bwahahaha
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:23:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> hehehe
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:23:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:23:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> thats what i'm hoping you'll answer
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:24:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> it should, i think
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:24:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> i think so too
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:25:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> TESTDUMMY is a past deployment, in 2008 so no problem.
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:25:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, let's try to be sure about that before committing to one
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:25:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> so we'd like to get that listunspent abandon flag in for 0.12.1 too (but not the gui changes)...
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:25:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> it's fine. TESTDUMMY timeout is December 31, 2008
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:25:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> opening PR in 30secs.
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:25:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">topic:</span> anything else needed for 0.12.1 ?
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:26:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> What about the GUI warning capabilities for 0.12.1?
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:26:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7579
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:26:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> if it's going to be a softfork release, there shouldn't be much else in 0.12.1
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:26:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> yeah let's keep it small
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:26:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm not entierly happy with 7579,... but could be a small step.
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:26:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> postpone 7579
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:26:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> 2008? well, let's get into our deloreans
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:27:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> sorry, late, reading, super happy with bip9
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:27:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> oh, i'm glad you pointed me to that PR, i didn't know about it, and was separately going to rework warnings.   we should fix them for rpc and gui at the same time.  so yeah not for 0.12.1
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:27:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> 7579 aims for a simple change that is BP compatibile.
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:28:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> let's leave that to 0.12.2
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:28:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It does not prevent the whole rework.
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:28:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> focus on the softfork
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:28:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:28:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> +1
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:28:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> anything that is also required will unpredictably affect the release date
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:28:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The internal warning system was always bad. So no hurry. :)
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:28:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yea...
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:29:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I do like 7579 btw
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:29:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> right, so lets review 7706 and jonasschnelli's pull that is now 2 mins overdue as well, b/c i think we need those
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:31:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> which one?
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:31:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> (the flag for abandontransaction in listunspent)
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:31:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> we probably need a new #topic, we've strayed off the original topic
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:31:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> well its all related to getting 0.12.1 released
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:31:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> oh that makes sense, probably a few line change with no impoact outside listunspent
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:31:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7707 (not 7706!)
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:31:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;GitHub84&gt;</span> [13bitcoin] 15jonasschnelli opened pull request #7707: [RPC][QT] UI support for abandoned transactions (06master...062016/03/abandon_ui) 02https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7707
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:32:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> yeah, mine is 7706, we need both
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:32:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> but the topic was "Scheduling the first BIP 9 sort fork for BIPs 68, 112, 113"
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:32:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i think we should get dgenr8's partition detection improvement reviewed for 0.12.1
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:32:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> Ah. Right.
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:32:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok, now everyone wants their favorite thing in 0.12.1
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:32:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> PR URL?
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:32:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> oh, i like that idea.  thats the most effective way to fix the poor situation with the warnings
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:32:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I was trying to avoid this
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:32:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> and focus on the softfork
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:33:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> well lets see if the list we come up wiht in the next 5 mins is reasonable
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:33:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> we don't have to keep adding stuff for the next week
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:33:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> improving the partition warnings would be a great help, because it's currently a _disaster_
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:34:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> dgenr8 partition check PR: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7568/files
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:34:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> minimum risk would be to release 0.12.0 + only softfork backports
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:34:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but I agree if there are critical bugfixes they should be in too
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:34:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I agree. 0.13 Release is 2016-07-01
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:35:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:35:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i think the conflict detection issue is potentially large. i'm kind of surprised we haven't seen more complaints about it.  i guess people might not rely on unconfirmed balance too much
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:35:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> (so not so far away)
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:35:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> if we don't fix the partition warnings, we should disable them. maintaining the system longer in the current state will just make people ignore them
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:35:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:35:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I agree sipa and morcos
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:35:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> have you reviewed the partition PR
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:35:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> so let's fix those
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:35:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> no more
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:36:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but the softfork is still priority #1
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:37:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ok
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:38:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">for 0.12.1, apart from softfork: fix partition warnings (review #7568), conflict detection issue (#7706)</span>
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:39:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> only the concept; i'll review the code too
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:39:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> we probably want a RPC-only #7707 for 0.12.1
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:40:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> yep, its one line of code.  : )
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:40:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> heh
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:40:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> Agree. You could cherry pick or tell me if i should open a RPC-only PR against 0.12
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:40:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> oh it's one line, I'll manage :)
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:40:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:41:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Is a independent commit: 42e945d79fd54ab11ad48978910b42d10c1c7cf8
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:41:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i marked 7706 as WIP, but i just want to flesh out the tests.  but wouldn't mind somoene else to think about whether its doing the right thing
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:41:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">for 0.12.1, #7707 (: 42e945d79fd54ab11ad48978910b42d10c1c7cf8 only)</span>
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:41:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ACK on just using bits in order
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:44:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that concludes the topic, I think
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:44:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> topic prop.: state of SW
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:44:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">state of SW</span>
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:45:00 </span><span class="nka">* jonasschnelli</span> <span class="ac">thinks is rude to look at sipa now...</span>
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:45:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm working on the post-fork upgrade problem in the current segnet code
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:45:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> the right bit to signal hardforks is the one that helps old nodes declare the first hardfork block invalid. see outdated https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7566/commits/990dda87b258c1e8d4d35b1fcbae4106303664f0
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:45:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> next thing after that is rebase on top of versionbitd and do a new segnet
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:45:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> new segnet or testnet?
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:45:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> samesame?
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:46:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> new segnet
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:46:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> though we can independently test on testnet too, of course
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:47:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Are we aiming SW for 0.13.1?
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:47:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm aiming for SW in 0.11.something, 0.12.something, 0
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:47:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> 0.13
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:48:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it's a softfork, we'll need to backport
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:48:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> btw, you should make the start date for CSV deployment earlier on testnet.  we didn't talk about that.  but any reason not to make the start date march 1st?
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:48:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> Agree. Just on the "timeline".
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:48:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> "soon"
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:48:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I love that "soon". :)
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:50:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I'm just asking because some Core Devs did agree a timeline for SW on a a miners/devs/etc. meeting.
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:50:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *agree on a timeline
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:50:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> ok
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:51:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> i don't care what some people think; a timeline is something you can't promise
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:51:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> but we can do our best
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:51:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> good to watch that timeline but most important is that we don't deploy before it's ready, quality shouldn't suffer under time pressure
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:51:19</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> fully agree.
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:51:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> that's fine, so long as we communicate how things are going, that's good enough.
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:51:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> worst outcome would be to be scared into delivering something that breaks
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:51:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">btcdrak:</span> yes. We just need to communicate.
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:51:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:52:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Lets just say "soon". :)
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:52:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm glad bip9 seems final
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:52:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> me too
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:52:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. Finally.
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:53:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> party at your house. we'll bring the beers.
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:53:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think that concludes the meeting?
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:53:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> btcdrak finally de-anonymizes at the party.
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:53:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
