====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:09 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2016/bitcoin-dev.2016-01-28-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* refactoring window  (wumpus, 19:01:43)

* outstanding issues for 0.12.0  (wumpus, 19:20:34)
  * ACTION: cfields: new key for win release signing  (wumpus, 19:22:18)
  * ACTION: gmaxwell: "one line change" to fix #7082 in 0.12.0  (wumpus,
    19:35:56)

* how does this new "critical" OpenSSL release affect us  (wumpus,
  19:39:14)
  * LINK:
    https://mta.openssl.org/pipermail/openssl-announce/2016-January/000061.html
    (wumpus, 19:39:43)



Meeting ended at 20:00:47 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* cfields
  * cfields: new key for win release signing
* gmaxwell
  * gmaxwell: "one line change" to fix #7082 in 0.12.0



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (93)
* jonasschnelli (39)
* gmaxwell (34)
* petertodd (26)
* jtimon (23)
* cfields (14)
* Tasoshi (14)
* btcdrak (11)
* Luke-Jr (9)
* what_now (5)
* paveljanik (4)
* maaku (2)
* lightningbot` (2)
* wallet42 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4