=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:19 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-09-29-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* pruning and blockrelay  (wumpus, 19:03:11)

* removing checkpoints  (wumpus, 19:36:55)

* segwit against uncompressed keys or not  (wumpus, 19:51:13)



Meeting ended at 20:00:15 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (85)
* sipa (74)
* gmaxwell (71)
* petertodd (48)
* jonasschnelli (35)
* luke-jr (16)
* CodeShark (11)
* achow101 (9)
* morcos (8)
* Chris_Stewart_5 (3)
* MarcoFalke (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* btcdrak (2)
* sdaftuar (2)
* BakSAj (1)
* cfields_ (1)
* kanzure (1)
* jl2012_ (1)
* michagogo (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4