====================
#bitcoin-dev Meeting
====================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:01:06 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2016/bitcoin-dev.2016-02-04-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* segwit proposed changes  (wumpus, 19:02:16)
  * LINK:
    https://bitslog.wordpress.com/2016/01/08/spv-mining-is-the-solution-not-the-problem/
    (Tasoshi, 19:09:24)

* 0.12.0  (wumpus, 19:15:08)

* sequence locks  (wumpus, 19:18:39)
  * ACTION: review and test ACK #7184 and  #6564  (wumpus, 19:20:09)
  * LINK: https://github.com/ajtowns/op_csv-test  (wumpus, 19:25:07)
  * LINK: https://github.com/btcdrak/bitcoin/tree/sequenceandcsv
    (wumpus, 19:25:30)
  * LINK: https://bitcoincore.org/en/lifecycle/  (wumpus, 19:33:02)



Meeting ended at 19:33:33 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* petertodd (37)
* wumpus (33)
* btcdrak (20)
* jtimon (18)
* sipa (13)
* Tasoshi (12)
* phantomcircuit (3)
* cfields (2)
* lightningbot` (2)
* gmaxwell (1)
* shea256 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4