=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:11 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* ACTION: (sipa) list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are
  done that warrant review  (wumpus, 19:08:50)
* status of the segwit BIPs  (wumpus, 19:20:29)
  * ACTION: bip 144 needs to include the service bit stuff  (wumpus,
    19:23:15)
  * ACTION: (gmaxwell) try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef
    to reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the
    spec  (wumpus, 19:26:20)



Meeting ended at 19:55:37 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* gmaxwell
  * (gmaxwell) try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef to
    reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the spec
* sipa
  * (sipa) list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done
    that warrant review



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (38)
* jonasschnelli (36)
* sipa (24)
* petertodd (20)
* jtimon (17)
* kanzure (17)
* cfields (14)
* morcos (9)
* instagibbs (8)
* sdaftuar (8)
* gmaxwell (7)
* warren (5)
* paveljanik (4)
* achow101 (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* btcdrak (2)
* jl2012 (2)
* luke-jr (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4