<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:00:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:00:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu Apr 28 19:00:11 2016 UTC.  The chair is wumpus. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:00:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:00:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> jonasschnelli wumpus morcos sdaftuar kanzure BlueMatt jtimon cfields luke-jr petertodd
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:00:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> proposed topics?
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:00:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> mildly present
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:00:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> i propose follow-up from last week re: segwit code review, and new/upcoming tasks on that front
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:00:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i'm here for 10 mins
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:01:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">gmaxwell:</span> thanks for the ping
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:01:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I have two very small topic proposals: wording for RBF, a request for creating/storing CI material
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:01:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> anything you want to talk about in 10 minutes.
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:01:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> thanks, here
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:01:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> just to encourage anyone who is going to review segwit to get on it!  :)
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:01:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> action items of last time were a) more code review of segwit 2) kanzure: look at test coverage output 3) (Luke) update GBT segwit stuff 4) (jtimon) tutorial to enable travis on your own repo 5) (cfields) travis changes requiring some downtime 6) merge #7920 when cfields says so
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:01:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> i have some segwit review notes but they are not precisely publicly consumable, can i get a volunteer to go through my notes? ideally not sipa :)
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:01:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> What is the status of the segwit BIPs? are they all consistent with the implementation right now?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:02:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> if i was supposed to look at test coverage output then i totally barfed on that, my bad-- i thought someone else took that.
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:02:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> last two items are done at least, transition to trusty and c++11 was succesful
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:02:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> \O/
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:02:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> yes the name is who suggested it, Idon't know the context
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:02:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> re 4 I thought cfields was going to write the tutorail, not me...I'm still on https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:02:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> i'd be happy to review your notes
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:03:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> cool, i will spam you with them
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:03:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> sorry, i got lost in the transition stuff
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:03:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> oh maybe he's going to, but he had a lot on his hands
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:03:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> no hurry, just saying that I'm not working on that
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:04:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> okay :)
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:04:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> how is the review of segwit going?
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:04:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> you have been spammed, thanks.
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:05:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i'm feeling pretty good, but it's hard to tell who all has done deep commit by commit reviews
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:05:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> topic suggestion-- how to convince sipa to give more context about testing status of segwit
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:06:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> i'm slowly making my way through
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:06:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> good to hear that you're making your way through
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:06:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> perhaps we should all post about our review status?
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:06:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">tangentially:</span> I've finally started working with the mining pools (with Kang's help translating) to ensure that their real-world environments. Aim is to get at least one segnet block mined by each pool. Happy to report that last night, BTCC's patched pool mined a few blocks. I'll be working with the others in the coming days
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:06:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> oh thats great!
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:07:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> *segnet block with witness txs, ofc
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:07:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> i have done a preliminary read of all the diffs for segwit but not commit-by-commit.... i have a number of places that i am considering investigating the test situation more closely but it's all probably dead-ends ( sdaftuar to advise ).
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:07:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> time for someone else to get some segnet coins, i have too many
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:07:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i could list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done that warrant review
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:07:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> yes please.
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:08:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">(sipa) list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done that warrant review</span>
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:08:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> in particular the areas that are new for me (such as the wallet/signing code) are harder to be confident about.  i'd feel better knowing others are reviewing it as well
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:09:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> good to know
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:09:32</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> signaturehash changes were specified by bip and one (trivial) review task is "confirm it follows the bip spec"
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:09:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> harder b/c of me, not b/c the code is tricky looking
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:10:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> morcos, maybe have people express review coverage with amount of certainty based on familiarity with the code
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:10:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the wallet signing code adds a refactor to stop working directly on scriotsigs, but initially work on just the stacks being pushed, and only convert them at the last step
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:10:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> for me, review of wallet code was much easier than parsing the tree commitment stuff
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:11:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> some input from other projects (NicolasDorier *poke*) may be helpful there.
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:11:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> i like that idea. not sure how easy it is to break up
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:11:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> that said, I read *every* commit, and attempted best-effort understanding
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:11:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> i'd like some comments from you ob luke-jr's proposed bip9 gbt changes
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:11:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> ok got to run.  overall, yay for c++11, yay for segwit!
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:11:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> ah, right. ack.
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:12:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I was talking to nickler about doing consensus harness tests for verifying consensus consistence, e.g. between 0.13 and 0.12.x or pre-segwit. Maybe there will be something to report there in a week or so.
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:12:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, for example, I'm less familiar with the p2p and wallet parts, unfortunately I don't think I will be able to give a full utACK to #7910, but that of course shouldn't not stop it from being merged
<a name="l-58"></a><span class="tm">19:13:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jtimon, which brings me to my point, aside from sipa and a few others, I doubt anyone can full utACK #7910
<a name="l-59"></a><span class="tm">19:14:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> one of the things i'd like to investigate more closely is the set of tests that were written versus the expected set of tests... but hard to find all the corner cases.
<a name="l-60"></a><span class="tm">19:14:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> good point, the PR touches many parts. I think I will focus on the consensus and relay policy parts and only utACK that
<a name="l-61"></a><span class="tm">19:15:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> also in general: what do people think of the strategy i've been following to not rebase/squash, but only add small patches and a changing merge commit at the end?
<a name="l-62"></a><span class="tm">19:15:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> i think that is a good idea. it gives us time to ACK various older commits.
<a name="l-63"></a><span class="tm">19:15:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> jtimon, seems wise, people have to self-select what they feel competent to review
<a name="l-64"></a><span class="tm">19:16:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> at some point i'll squash and rebase in such a way that the resulting tree id identical to the old broken down branch
<a name="l-65"></a><span class="tm">19:16:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> no strong opinion but it seems to partly defeat the point of having the commits separated in related sections (btw, I would separate p2p from consensus)
<a name="l-66"></a><span class="tm">19:16:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> tree id similarity is a nice approach....
<a name="l-67"></a><span class="tm">19:16:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> (git ls-tree and such)
<a name="l-68"></a><span class="tm">19:17:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> i'll keep the section
<a name="l-69"></a><span class="tm">19:17:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> some kind of warning before you squash/rebase would be helpful for me at least
<a name="l-70"></a><span class="tm">19:17:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> but i like how you've done it so far
<a name="l-71"></a><span class="tm">19:17:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> it would also be good if you could keep the original commits around on your git repo
<a name="l-72"></a><span class="tm">19:17:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">kanzure:</span> of course
<a name="l-73"></a><span class="tm">19:17:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I see, so your question is more about squashing only once at the end, fine with me
<a name="l-74"></a><span class="tm">19:17:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> it needs to be verifiable
<a name="l-75"></a><span class="tm">19:18:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;kanzure&gt;</span> good, thanks.
<a name="l-76"></a><span class="tm">19:18:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> you can just push to a spare branch before final squash, then we can diff the two
<a name="l-77"></a><span class="tm">19:18:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> only add commits, once we have enough ACKS, hash the diff, rebase, check the hash of the diff and merge?
<a name="l-78"></a><span class="tm">19:18:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> indeed
<a name="l-79"></a><span class="tm">19:20:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> ok next topic?
<a name="l-80"></a><span class="tm">19:20:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="topic">#topic </span><span class="topicline">status of the segwit BIPs</span>
<a name="l-81"></a><span class="tm">19:21:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> (gmaxwell)
<a name="l-82"></a><span class="tm">19:21:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> bip 144 needs to include the service bit stuff
<a name="l-83"></a><span class="tm">19:22:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> everyone agree?
<a name="l-84"></a><span class="tm">19:22:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> ugh, that was never uodated
<a name="l-85"></a><span class="tm">19:22:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yes, agree
<a name="l-86"></a><span class="tm">19:23:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">bip 144 needs to include the service bit stuff</span>
<a name="l-87"></a><span class="tm">19:23:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> I suppose we should try to extract some feedback e.g. from roastbeef to reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the spec.
<a name="l-88"></a><span class="tm">19:23:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> roasbeef*
<a name="l-89"></a><span class="tm">19:24:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> just noticed someone has a python-bitcoinlib segwit branch too
<a name="l-90"></a><span class="tm">19:24:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> armory does as well
<a name="l-91"></a><span class="tm">19:24:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> (sorry, just got in)
<a name="l-92"></a><span class="tm">19:24:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> just in time for the python-bitcoinlib segwit branch!
<a name="l-93"></a><span class="tm">19:25:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> ha yeah - no credit to me though :)
<a name="l-94"></a><span class="tm">19:26:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#action </span><span class="cmdline">(gmaxwell) try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef to reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the spec</span>
<a name="l-95"></a><span class="tm">19:26:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> we have gotten some comments from a few people and making small clarifications frequently
<a name="l-96"></a><span class="tm">19:26:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> including from tadge
<a name="l-97"></a><span class="tm">19:27:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i'm surprised nobody commented about the service bit
<a name="l-98"></a><span class="tm">19:27:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;achow101&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> I think I brought it up a couple of weeks ago but didn't follow up on it
<a name="l-99"></a><span class="tm">19:28:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">achow101:</span> sorry then!
<a name="l-100"></a><span class="tm">19:29:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> I can verify 141 and 143 match up
<a name="l-101"></a><span class="tm">19:30:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> great
<a name="l-102"></a><span class="tm">19:32:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> small update: the reviewer that btcdrak contacted about ctaes wrote a report
<a name="l-103"></a><span class="tm">19:32:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> the tor lead dev?
<a name="l-104"></a><span class="tm">19:32:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> no, someone mathhew green recommemded
<a name="l-105"></a><span class="tm">19:33:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> he formally proved that some parts were correct, and analyzed the condtant timeness
<a name="l-106"></a><span class="tm">19:33:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. Good. What was the result?
<a name="l-107"></a><span class="tm">19:33:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i can share the reoort
<a name="l-108"></a><span class="tm">19:33:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> +1
<a name="l-109"></a><span class="tm">19:33:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> a+ :)
<a name="l-110"></a><span class="tm">19:33:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> Can you add it on your ctaes repository?
<a name="l-111"></a><span class="tm">19:33:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> awesome!
<a name="l-112"></a><span class="tm">19:33:49</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> nice!
<a name="l-113"></a><span class="tm">19:35:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> any more topics? i'll be off otherwise
<a name="l-114"></a><span class="tm">19:35:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> RBF naming: should we flag/attribute RBF transaction as "replaceable" or should we attribute "current" non RBF transaction as "non-replacable"?
<a name="l-115"></a><span class="tm">19:35:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> I'd lean towards replacable, as non-replacable implies we're promising something...
<a name="l-116"></a><span class="tm">19:36:00</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jl2012&gt;</span> bringing segwit testing to testnet?
<a name="l-117"></a><span class="tm">19:36:09</span><span class="nk"> &lt;gmaxwell&gt;</span> the former, I think. It's incorrect to say non-RBF is non-replacable; they're just somewhat less replacable.
<a name="l-118"></a><span class="tm">19:36:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> agree with gmaxwell
<a name="l-119"></a><span class="tm">19:37:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Okay. I agree as well. Will continue with this term.
<a name="l-120"></a><span class="tm">19:37:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;instagibbs&gt;</span> 'mempool-replaceable' ?
<a name="l-121"></a><span class="tm">19:37:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> doublespends happen all the time, and only a small subset of them are opt-in RBF txs
<a name="l-122"></a><span class="tm">19:37:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> but RBF transactions the user can easily replace themselves
<a name="l-123"></a><span class="tm">19:37:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jl2012&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> are we ready to define the testnet BIP9 parameter for segwit?
<a name="l-124"></a><span class="tm">19:37:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> that should be the focus imo
<a name="l-125"></a><span class="tm">19:38:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> what the user can do with it
<a name="l-126"></a><span class="tm">19:38:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">instagibbs:</span> I was also thinking about that. But does the normal bitcoin-qt user really knows what the mempool is?
<a name="l-127"></a><span class="tm">19:38:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> "standard-policy-0.12-replaceable"?
<a name="l-128"></a><span class="tm">19:38:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> :}
<a name="l-129"></a><span class="tm">19:38:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> all the user's node knowns is they think it's replacable, so the 0.12 is implicit :)
<a name="l-130"></a><span class="tm">19:38:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> "standard-policy-0.12-BIP125-replaceable"
<a name="l-131"></a><span class="tm">19:39:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes the 0.12 is implicit, the BIP125 part makes sense
<a name="l-132"></a><span class="tm">19:39:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, 0.12 was kind of joking, the point is all tx are equally replaceable with a custom policy, the opt-in stuff is just about the standard policy
<a name="l-133"></a><span class="tm">19:39:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> don't we already have a bip125-replacable or similar name used in the RPC anyway?
<a name="l-134"></a><span class="tm">19:39:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> Yes. Listtransaction
<a name="l-135"></a><span class="tm">19:40:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes entry.push_back(Pair("bip125-replaceable", rbfStatus));
<a name="l-136"></a><span class="tm">19:40:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> ack bip125-replaceable
<a name="l-137"></a><span class="tm">19:40:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Also I think someone should refactor the RBF BIP125 rules to the new rbf.cpp
<a name="l-138"></a><span class="tm">19:40:31</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jtimon:</span> you can also replace txs by flooding mempools and getting them kicked out :)
<a name="l-139"></a><span class="tm">19:40:40</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> The bumpfee or feealter command could than re-check the validity
<a name="l-140"></a><span class="tm">19:40:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> s/re-check/pre-check
<a name="l-141"></a><span class="tm">19:41:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> In the GUI we should probably just use the term "replaceable".
<a name="l-142"></a><span class="tm">19:42:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> then we have the same problem I think
<a name="l-143"></a><span class="tm">19:42:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> "easily replacable"
<a name="l-144"></a><span class="tm">19:42:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> opt-in-repleaceable ?
<a name="l-145"></a><span class="tm">19:42:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> or heck, "trivially replacable"
<a name="l-146"></a><span class="tm">19:42:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> "updatable"?
<a name="l-147"></a><span class="tm">19:43:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> "replacement-requested"
<a name="l-148"></a><span class="tm">19:43:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> of "signs replicability"?
<a name="l-149"></a><span class="tm">19:43:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> eh, changing the name to something other than replacable would invite trolling possibly
<a name="l-150"></a><span class="tm">19:43:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> replacability signalled ;-)
<a name="l-151"></a><span class="tm">19:43:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> replacability signalled: +1
<a name="l-152"></a><span class="tm">19:43:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes I think whatever the name is it should contain 'replace', otherwise it's too confusing, introducing completely new terminology
<a name="l-153"></a><span class="tm">19:44:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> +1
<a name="l-154"></a><span class="tm">19:44:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Indeed
<a name="l-155"></a><span class="tm">19:44:12</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> replaceability signalled sounds good to me
<a name="l-156"></a><span class="tm">19:44:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> sure, why not
<a name="l-157"></a><span class="tm">19:44:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ack
<a name="l-158"></a><span class="tm">19:44:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> "replace explicitly allowed"?
<a name="l-159"></a><span class="tm">19:44:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> fee-replaceable ?
<a name="l-160"></a><span class="tm">19:44:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> but it could also add a output
<a name="l-161"></a><span class="tm">19:44:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> I mean, "replacability signalled" is good enough for me
<a name="l-162"></a><span class="tm">19:45:28</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> but right. You mean replaceable by fee
<a name="l-163"></a><span class="tm">19:45:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> yeah, you can replace it if you up the fee
<a name="l-164"></a><span class="tm">19:45:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> "fee-replacability signalled"?
<a name="l-165"></a><span class="tm">19:46:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> which is tricky, because any low fee tx is in practice replacable by fee regardless of whether bip125 is used or not
<a name="l-166"></a><span class="tm">19:46:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> but not by your wallet
<a name="l-167"></a><span class="tm">19:46:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I don't think the GUI term needs to be so specific - just make sure that the mouseover or other documentation explains it in more detail
<a name="l-168"></a><span class="tm">19:46:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sdaftuar&gt;</span> +1
<a name="l-169"></a><span class="tm">19:46:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Sure. But the term would also be for attributing incoming payment.
<a name="l-170"></a><span class="tm">19:46:47</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> oh, key question: are we going to show this for all txs, or just txs sent by the user?
<a name="l-171"></a><span class="tm">19:46:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> sdaftuar, depends on the wallet IMO
<a name="l-172"></a><span class="tm">19:46:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> exactly, for all we know, miners could replace by hash alphabetic order rather than fees
<a name="l-173"></a><span class="tm">19:47:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sdaftuar:</span> i like that, but it describes the mechanics more than the intent.
<a name="l-174"></a><span class="tm">19:47:07</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">petertodd:</span> incoming and outdoing.
<a name="l-175"></a><span class="tm">19:47:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> see, if it was just outgoing, this conversation would be a lot simpler :)
<a name="l-176"></a><span class="tm">19:48:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> replacability signalled is fine, let's move on
<a name="l-177"></a><span class="tm">19:48:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> incoming tx: "replacability signalled", create tx: "[ ] signall replacability"
<a name="l-178"></a><span class="tm">19:48:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> ack.
<a name="l-179"></a><span class="tm">19:48:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> what was wrong about "Opted in to replacement" or something along those lines?
<a name="l-180"></a><span class="tm">19:48:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> any other topics?
<a name="l-181"></a><span class="tm">19:48:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> yeah, nv, "replacability signalled" does it
<a name="l-182"></a><span class="tm">19:48:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jtimon&gt;</span> s/nv/never mind
<a name="l-183"></a><span class="tm">19:49:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">topic:</span> another boring one, not sure if this is the right place: Someone contacted me that we should have a repository for Bitcoin Core logos and communication material.
<a name="l-184"></a><span class="tm">19:49:11</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Somehow that made me think that Bitcoin Core has no clear logo/visual identity. Its not define what to use when, the font, the colors. Not sure if anyone from us cares about that though.
<a name="l-185"></a><span class="tm">19:49:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;paveljanik&gt;</span> press kit? ;-)
<a name="l-186"></a><span class="tm">19:49:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> +1
<a name="l-187"></a><span class="tm">19:49:44</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> We probably don't care. But out userbase does a lot
<a name="l-188"></a><span class="tm">19:49:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">paveljanik:</span> or maybe call it "media kit" to shift focus to all media in general
<a name="l-189"></a><span class="tm">19:49:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> *our
<a name="l-190"></a><span class="tm">19:49:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> a press kit would be a good idea
<a name="l-191"></a><span class="tm">19:50:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> we don't have that, but if anyone wants to make it and collect some things why not
<a name="l-192"></a><span class="tm">19:50:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> It would imply that we first need to create a identity, proper logo, font, etc. I'm not interested ATM, but happy if someone know someone who is.
<a name="l-193"></a><span class="tm">19:50:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;btcdrak&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonaschnelli:</span> ideally we could store that in a "media kit" repository.
<a name="l-194"></a><span class="tm">19:51:16</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I think it should be a subarea of the website
<a name="l-195"></a><span class="tm">19:51:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;petertodd&gt;</span> <span class="hi">jonasschnelli:</span> that makes sense
<a name="l-196"></a><span class="tm">19:51:46</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> yes I think the question is more *who* than if, I don't think press kits are very usual for open source projects, but if someone wants to work on that I don't want to discourage
<a name="l-197"></a><span class="tm">19:52:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Agree.
<a name="l-198"></a><span class="tm">19:52:26</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> they're very common among altcoins though :p
<a name="l-199"></a><span class="tm">19:52:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> <span class="hi">wumpus:</span> for open-source, they almost always accompany a licensing policy
<a name="l-200"></a><span class="tm">19:52:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> (lived through that hell for a while in a past life)
<a name="l-201"></a><span class="tm">19:52:50</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">cfields:</span> yes, as for firefox
<a name="l-202"></a><span class="tm">19:52:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-203"></a><span class="tm">19:53:38</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> so for us, unless we wanted to police it, a press kit would be more of a collection of recommended images/text that we also use.
<a name="l-204"></a><span class="tm">19:54:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;cfields&gt;</span> i suppose that was the idea, though
<a name="l-205"></a><span class="tm">19:54:08</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> right
<a name="l-206"></a><span class="tm">19:54:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Yes. There is even no clear logo that Bitcoin Core uses/represents.
<a name="l-207"></a><span class="tm">19:54:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> "\nExamples:\n"
<a name="l-208"></a><span class="tm">19:54:17</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> + HelpExampleCli("getnewaddress", "")
<a name="l-209"></a><span class="tm">19:54:21</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> + HelpExampleRpc("getnewaddress", "")
<a name="l-210"></a><span class="tm">19:54:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> Any idea why this has both, and they're identical?
<a name="l-211"></a><span class="tm">19:54:25</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> dumpprivatekey
<a name="l-212"></a><span class="tm">19:54:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="hi">warren:</span> we're in the middle of a meeting
<a name="l-213"></a><span class="tm">19:54:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;warren&gt;</span> oops sorry!
<a name="l-214"></a><span class="tm">19:54:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> well, at the end
<a name="l-215"></a><span class="tm">19:55:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> I think we're done
<a name="l-216"></a><span class="tm">19:55:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> \ö/
<a name="l-217"></a><span class="tm">19:55:37</span><span class="nk"> &lt;wumpus&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
