<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:11 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li>
<ol type="a">
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">(sipa) list a
    few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done that warrant
    review</span> <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html#l-42'>wumpus</a>,
    19:08:50)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">status of the segwit BIPs</b> <span class="details">(<a href='bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html#l-80'>wumpus</a>, 19:20:29)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">bip 144 needs
    to include the service bit stuff</span> <span class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html#l-86'>wumpus</a>,
    19:23:15)</span></li>
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">(gmaxwell)
    try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef to reimplemented,
    who might be aware of other limitations in the spec</span> <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html#l-94'>wumpus</a>,
    19:26:20)</span></li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 19:55:37 UTC
(<a href="bitcoin-core-dev.2016-04-28-19.00.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>(sipa) list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done that warrant review</li>
  <li>bip 144 needs to include the service bit stuff</li>
  <li>(gmaxwell) try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef to reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the spec</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>Action items, by person</h3>
<ol>
  <li> gmaxwell <ol>
    <li>(gmaxwell) try to extract some feedback e.g. from roasbeef to reimplemented, who might be aware of other limitations in the spec</li>
  </ol></li>
  <li> sipa <ol>
    <li>(sipa) list a few areas where i think mildly tricky things are done that warrant review</li>
  </ol></li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>wumpus (38)</li>
  <li>jonasschnelli (36)</li>
  <li>sipa (24)</li>
  <li>petertodd (20)</li>
  <li>jtimon (17)</li>
  <li>kanzure (17)</li>
  <li>cfields (14)</li>
  <li>morcos (9)</li>
  <li>instagibbs (8)</li>
  <li>sdaftuar (8)</li>
  <li>gmaxwell (7)</li>
  <li>warren (5)</li>
  <li>paveljanik (4)</li>
  <li>achow101 (3)</li>
  <li>lightningbot (2)</li>
  <li>btcdrak (2)</li>
  <li>jl2012 (2)</li>
  <li>luke-jr (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
