=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:00:43 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-08-04-19.00.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* 0.13.0 final?  (wumpus, 19:01:22)
  * ACTION: check if downgrade protection is really needed, or whether
    it already fails  (wumpus, 19:18:28)

* segwit mempool malleability dos  (wumpus, 19:20:52)

* libconsensus  (wumpus, 19:52:25)



Meeting ended at 19:58:24 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* sipa (52)
* wumpus (49)
* gmaxwell (30)
* sdaftuar (20)
* luke-jr (19)
* morcos (13)
* BlueMatt (11)
* cfields (10)
* instagibbs (7)
* jonasschnelli (6)
* NicolasDorier (6)
* jtimon (3)
* MarcoFalke (2)
* kanzure (2)
* btcdrak (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* GitHub107 (1)
* GitHub10 (1)
* jeremyrubin (1)
* GitHub168 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4