=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:02:37 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-08-25-19.02.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pulls/paveljanik
  (MarcoFalke, 19:03:59)
* proposals for segwit DoS protection  (wumpus, 19:06:13)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8279
    (jonasschnelli, 19:08:30)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8525  (jonasschnelli,
    19:17:59)

* code signing  (wumpus, 19:34:18)
  * LINK: https://github.com/theuni/osx-codesign  (cfields_, 19:35:04)



Meeting ended at 19:57:10 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* sipa (51)
* gmaxwell (46)
* cfields_ (31)
* jonasschnelli (31)
* petertodd (26)
* wumpus (20)
* CodeShark (16)
* luke-jr (12)
* kanzure (9)
* btcdrak (8)
* instagibbs (7)
* paveljanik (6)
* jeremyrubin (3)
* MarcoFalke (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* afk11 (1)
* michagogo (1)
* murch (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4