=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:02:40 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-06-23-19.02.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* perceived validation slowdowns  (wumpus, 19:04:46)

* segwit  (wumpus, 19:21:45)
  * LINK: see the release schedule here:
    https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8250  (wumpus, 19:24:34)
  * ACTION: Merge segwit  (wumpus, 19:32:39)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8204  (sipa, 19:45:49)



Meeting ended at 19:49:58 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (64)
* sipa (59)
* gmaxwell (54)
* jtimon (23)
* CodeShark (18)
* petertodd (12)
* btcdrak (7)
* lightningbot (2)
* instagibbs3 (2)
* instagibbs2 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4