=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by gmaxwell at 19:01:10 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-06-30-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* wrapping up the mining-related changes to 0.13.0 (please see #8294)
  (gmaxwell, 19:02:27)

* segwit  (gmaxwell, 19:20:43)

* dbcache  (gmaxwell, 19:38:31)

* net deadlock  (gmaxwell, 19:47:49)
  * ACTION: jonasschnelli to open issue on lockorder deadlock report
    that he's seeing  (gmaxwell, 19:49:13)

* BIP152  (gmaxwell, 19:50:39)



Meeting ended at 19:58:51 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* jonasschnelli
  * jonasschnelli to open issue on lockorder deadlock report that he's
    seeing



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* sipa (64)
* gmaxwell (63)
* wumpus (48)
* sdaftuar (36)
* petertodd (25)
* jonasschnelli (15)
* jtimon (11)
* btcdrak (4)
* michagogo (2)
* kanzure (2)
* lightningbot (2)
* jl2012 (1)
* CodeShark (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4