=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by wumpus at 19:03:00 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-11-10-19.03.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* hybrid SPV  (wumpus, 19:04:51)

* multithread ProcessMessages  (wumpus, 19:20:34)

* 0.14  (wumpus, 19:36:29)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8776 | Wallet
    refactoring leading up to multiwallet by luke-jr · Pull Request
    #8776 · bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:43:23)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8501 | Add mempool
    statistics collector by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #8501 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:44:32)
  * LINK: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8501 | Add mempool
    statistics collector by jonasschnelli · Pull Request #8501 ·
    bitcoin/bitcoin · GitHub  (gribble, 19:45:08)



Meeting ended at 19:55:51 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* wumpus (71)
* BlueMatt (56)
* jonasschnelli (53)
* gmaxwell (38)
* sipa (14)
* cfields (10)
* jtimon (10)
* sdaftuar (9)
* MarcoFalk_ (9)
* morcos (8)
* NicolasDorier (6)
* achow101 (6)
* kanzure (5)
* btcdrak (5)
* CodeShark (4)
* paveljanik (4)
* MarcoF____ (3)
* gribble (3)
* petertodd (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* ryanofsky (1)
* jcorgan (1)
* bitcoin-git (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4