=========================
#bitcoin-core-dev Meeting
=========================


Meeting started by sipa at 19:06:07 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-05-26-19.06.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* IDEA: merge segwit without defined softfork  (sipa, 19:21:15)
* LINK:
  https://gist.github.com/sdaftuar/0469a2583f33989cf8196d2f26d99114
  (kanzure, 19:33:39)
* ACTION: jonasschnelli make it more clean that bip151 uses openssh's
  chacha20-poly1305 standard  (sipa, 19:36:45)
* child pay for parent  (sipa, 19:43:33)



Meeting ended at 19:52:53 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* jonasschnelli
  * jonasschnelli make it more clean that bip151 uses openssh's
    chacha20-poly1305 standard



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* sipa (60)
* wumpus (37)
* kanzure (25)
* sdaftuar (16)
* btcdrak (14)
* CodeShark (9)
* luke-jr (6)
* petertodd (5)
* gmaxwell (5)
* cfields_ (4)
* instagibbs (3)
* lightningbot (2)
* jcorgan (1)
* jonasschnelli (1)
* achow101 (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4