<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#bitcoin-core-dev log</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* For the .log.html */
pre { /*line-height: 125%;*/
      white-space: pre-wrap; }
body { background: #f0f0f0; }

body .tm  { color: #007020 }                      /* time */
body .nk  { color: #062873; font-weight: bold }   /* nick, regular */
body .nka { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }  /* action nick */
body .ac  { color: #00A000 }                      /* action line */
body .hi  { color: #4070a0 }                 /* hilights */
/* Things to make particular MeetBot commands stick out */
body .topic     { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .topicline { color: #000080; font-weight: bold }
body .cmd       { color: #007020; font-weight: bold }
body .cmdline  { font-weight: bold }

</style>
</head>

<body>
<pre><a name="l-1"></a><span class="tm">19:02:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#startmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span>
<a name="l-2"></a><span class="tm">19:02:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Meeting started Thu May 19 19:02:22 2016 UTC.  The chair is BlueMatt. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.
<a name="l-3"></a><span class="tm">19:02:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;lightningbot&gt;</span> Useful Commands: #action #agreed #help #info #idea #link #topic.
<a name="l-4"></a><span class="tm">19:02:29</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> topics?
<a name="l-5"></a><span class="tm">19:03:10</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> VB GBT :P
<a name="l-6"></a><span class="tm">19:03:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> who's writing the fixes for that?
<a name="l-7"></a><span class="tm">19:04:14</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> i am at the zurich bitcoin meetup
<a name="l-8"></a><span class="tm">19:04:18</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> me https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7935
<a name="l-9"></a><span class="tm">19:05:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> so it looks like its in the review queue?
<a name="l-10"></a><span class="tm">19:05:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> yeah
<a name="l-11"></a><span class="tm">19:05:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> but it's fairly important to get released before CSV activates
<a name="l-12"></a><span class="tm">19:06:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> csv won't activate soon
<a name="l-13"></a><span class="tm">19:06:52</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> it might, but, indeed, there seems to be some meme about CSV not being useful without segwit :/
<a name="l-14"></a><span class="tm">19:06:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> could be within a month, no? and we need time for rc testing etc
<a name="l-15"></a><span class="tm">19:07:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> hmm
<a name="l-16"></a><span class="tm">19:07:33</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> how important is it for us to get CSV activated soon?
<a name="l-17"></a><span class="tm">19:07:48</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I don't know any urgent need for it tbh
<a name="l-18"></a><span class="tm">19:08:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> dont think its /criticial/, but it would be very nice for a few folks
<a name="l-19"></a><span class="tm">19:08:04</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> the demand for csv is for supporting htlcz
<a name="l-20"></a><span class="tm">19:08:57</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> htlcz?
<a name="l-21"></a><span class="tm">19:08:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> but doesn't it seem like segwit is such a big additional improvement that its not worth trying to push for CSV adoption now and instead saving our energy for segwit adoption?
<a name="l-22"></a><span class="tm">19:09:03</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> s/z/s/
<a name="l-23"></a><span class="tm">19:09:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> ah
<a name="l-24"></a><span class="tm">19:09:58</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> it would be very nice if it didnt activate at the same time, but while there are some use-cases, its true, I'm not aware of anyone clamoring for csv RIGHT NOW
<a name="l-25"></a><span class="tm">19:10:35</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> just for the purposes of having a live VB activation before segwit?
<a name="l-26"></a><span class="tm">19:10:41</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> it is kinda dissapointing that miners dont care enough to upgrade, since there were other bugfixes there, but whatever
<a name="l-27"></a><span class="tm">19:10:54</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> I got the (mistaken?) impression BlueMatt and gmaxwell were upset CSV was taking long, so I assumed it was getting pressure on
<a name="l-28"></a><span class="tm">19:10:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> that doesn't seem so critical to me, now that we've had so many testnet type activations
<a name="l-29"></a><span class="tm">19:11:01</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">morcos:</span> yea, that would be nice too
<a name="l-30"></a><span class="tm">19:11:30</span><span class="nk"> &lt;morcos&gt;</span> i agree its disappointing, but i'm not sure its something thats worth worrying about or doing anything about.  lets just roll out the next great thing
<a name="l-31"></a><span class="tm">19:11:34</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> no, I think gmaxwell would very much like it to move forward faster, and I am dissapointed that its not, but as morcos points out, its not critical
<a name="l-32"></a><span class="tm">19:11:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> what could be do to improve adoption?
<a name="l-33"></a><span class="tm">19:11:56</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> 0.11 backport would get Eligius
<a name="l-34"></a><span class="tm">19:12:02</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">sipa:</span> not much, a few folks were bugging the 2 big miners left
<a name="l-35"></a><span class="tm">19:12:51</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> right now solo depends on VB GBT, and Eligius depends on either 0.11 backport or 0.12 CPFP testing/review
<a name="l-36"></a><span class="tm">19:13:20</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> i'll review the patches tomorrow
<a name="l-37"></a><span class="tm">19:13:22</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> I'm working on the cpfp review
<a name="l-38"></a><span class="tm">19:13:45</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> next topic?
<a name="l-39"></a><span class="tm">19:15:13</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> should we make specific plans for the weekend?
<a name="l-40"></a><span class="tm">19:15:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> or maybe jonasschnelli already has that planned
<a name="l-41"></a><span class="tm">19:15:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> I think thats already mostly planned/most folks arent here/there is an email thread
<a name="l-42"></a><span class="tm">19:15:55</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> yes
<a name="l-43"></a><span class="tm">19:16:23</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> oh, has anyone looked at the OpenSSL exploits?
<a name="l-44"></a><span class="tm">19:16:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> I haven't planed a schedule on what to talk about or on what to work. I think this should be done together.
<a name="l-45"></a><span class="tm">19:16:39</span><span class="nk"> &lt;jonasschnelli&gt;</span> Any I guess 20 people can't work on the same thing. We might need to form groups.
<a name="l-46"></a><span class="tm">19:18:24</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> if there are no further topics, i suggest closing the meeting soon
<a name="l-47"></a><span class="tm">19:19:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> OpenSSL exploits could be a topic. IIRC there was an uncertainty of the risk of the last batch
<a name="l-48"></a><span class="tm">19:19:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> sounds good to me
<a name="l-49"></a><span class="tm">19:19:15</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> yes, someone should look at that
<a name="l-50"></a><span class="tm">19:19:36</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> you feel like digging into it?
<a name="l-51"></a><span class="tm">19:19:42</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> if we're going to release 0.12.2 with the VB GBT stuff, might as well bump OpenSSL with it?
<a name="l-52"></a><span class="tm">19:19:53</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> that sou ds reasonable
<a name="l-53"></a><span class="tm">19:19:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> <span class="hi">BlueMatt:</span> I don't feel competent in crypto, but I could dig a little I guess
<a name="l-54"></a><span class="tm">19:19:59</span><span class="nk"> &lt;sipa&gt;</span> sounds
<a name="l-55"></a><span class="tm">19:20:27</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="hi">luke-jr:</span> indeed, if we do another release (I think we'd need a quorum here to discuss that), then we should bump openssl
<a name="l-56"></a><span class="tm">19:22:05</span><span class="nk"> &lt;luke-jr&gt;</span> guess nothing else to discuss?
<a name="l-57"></a><span class="tm">19:24:06</span><span class="nk"> &lt;BlueMatt&gt;</span> <span class="cmd">#endmeeting</span><span class="cmdline"></span></pre>
</body></html>
